 J1939-71 MAR2011 SURFACE 
VEHICLE 
RECOMMENDED 
PRACTICE 
Issued 1994-08 
Revised 2011-03 
Superseding J1939-71 FEB2010 
Vehicle Application Layer (Through May 2010) 
RATIONALE 
New parameters and parameter groups are reviewed and discussed by the Truck and Bus Control and Communications 
Network Committee on a regular basis. This SAE Recommended Practice has been updated to reflect all changes and 
additions approved and balloted through May 2010. 
FOREWORD 
This series of SAE Recommended Practices has been developed by the Truck and Bus Control and Communications 
Network Committee of the Truck and Bus Electrical and Electronics Steering Committee. The objectives of the committee 
are to develop information reports, recommended practices, and standards concerned with the requirements design and 
usage of devices that transmit electronic signals and control information among vehicle components. The usage of these 
documents is not limited to truck and bus applications; other applications may be accommodated with immediate support 
being provided for construction and agricultural equipment, and stationary power systems. These documents are 
intended as a guide toward standard practice and are subject to change so as to keep pace with experience and technical 
advances. 
New parameters and parameter groups are reviewed and discussed by the Truck and Bus Control and Communications 
Network Committee on a regular basis. This documents reflects all changes and additions approved and balloted through 
May 2010. 
1. SCOPE 
As described in the parent document, SAE J1939, there is a minimum of seven documents required to fully define a 
complete version of this network. This particular SAE Recommended Practice, SAE J1939-71, describes an Application 
Layer for vehicle use. 
__________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
SAE Technical Standards Board Rules provide that: “This report is published by SAE to advance the state of technical and engineering sciences. The use of this report is 
entirely voluntary, and its applicability and suitability for any particular use, including any patent infringement arising therefrom, is the sole responsibility of the user.” 
SAE reviews each technical report at least every five years at which time it may be reaffirmed, revised, or cancelled. SAE invites your written comments and suggestions. 
Copyright © 2011 SAE International 
All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system or transmitted, in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, 
photocopying, recording, or otherwise, without the prior written permission of SAE. 
TO PLACE A DOCUMENT ORDER: Tel: 877-606-7323 (inside USA and Canada) 
Tel: +1 724-776-4970 (outside USA) 
Fax: 724-776-0790 
Email: CustomerService@sae.org 
SAE WEB ADDRESS: http://www.sae.org
SAE values your input. To provide feedback
 on this Technical Report, please visit 
http://www.sae.org/technical/standards/J1939/71_201103
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 2 -
2. REFERENCES 
2.1 Applicable Publications 
General information regarding this series of recommended practices is found in SAE J1939. Unless otherwise specified, 
the latest issue of SAE publications shall apply. 
2.1.1 SAE Publications 
Available from SAE International, 400 Commonwealth Drive, Warrendale, PA 15096-0001, Tel: 877-606-7323 (inside 
USA and Canada) or 724-776-4970 (outside USA), www.sae.org.
SAE J1349 Engine Power Test Code—Spark Ignition and Compression Ignition—Net Power Rating 
SAE J1843 Accelerator Pedal Position Sensor for Use with Electronic Controls in Medium- and Heavy-Duty Vehicle 
Applications
SAE J1922 Powertrain Control Interface for Electronic Controls Used in Medium- and Heavy-Duty Diesel On-Highway 
Vehicle Applications 
SAE J1939 Recommended Practice for a Serial Control and Communications Vehicle Network 
SAE J1939-21 Data Link Layer 
SAE J2403 Medium/Heavy-Duty E/E Systems Diagnosis Nomenclature 
2.1.2 ISO Publications 
Available from ANSI, 25 West 43rd Street, New York, NY 10036-8002, Tel: 212-642-4900, www.ansi.org.
2.1.3 Other Publications 
Patent EP000001386774B1, “Control Apparatus for Brakes of a Commercial Vehicle”, Held by Knorr-Bremse Systeme, 
Germany, Date 8/1/2003, included with permission from the patent holder 
3. DEFINITIONS 
See SAE J1939 for terms and definitions that are not defined in this document. 
4. ABBREVIATIONS 
ACC Adaptive Cruise Control or Autonomous Cruise Control 
ATA American Trucking Association 
CTI Central Tire Inflation 
EBS Electronic Braking System 
FMS Fleet Management System 
Kp Engine endspeed governor gain 
ROP Roll Over Prevention 
VDC Vehicle Dynamic (Stability) Control 
VGT Variable Geometry Turbocharger 
VMRS Vehicle Maintenance Reporting System 
 See SAE J1939 for additional abbreviations that may be used in this document. 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 3 -
5. TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS 
The Application Layer provides a means for application processes to access the OSI environment. This layer contains 
management functions and generally useful mechanisms to support applications. 
5.1 General Guidelines 
5.1.1 Signal Characterization 
It is the intent of the SAE J1939 network to provide current data and signals from a source so that it may be used by other 
nodes. It is recommended that the time between physical data acquisition of a signal and the transmission of the data 
should not exceed two times the repetition rate defined for the data. Additional constraints may be defined for certain 
parameters (see also 5.1.7.2). 
5.1.2 Message Format 
The message format of SAE J1939 uses the parameter group number as the label for a group of parameters. Each of the 
parameters within the group can be expressed in ASCII, as scaled data defined by the ranges described in 5.1.4, or as 
function states consisting of two or more bits. Alphanumeric data will be transmitted with the most significant byte first.
(R) Most significant byte first for ASCII or alphanumeric data means the individual characters are positioned in the data field 
in left-to-right reading order of the ASCII string. The left most character of the ASCII string shall be positioned closest to
the PGN in the CAN header and transmitted first, and the right most character of the ASCII string shall be positioned 
farthest from the PGN in the CAN header and transmitted last. For example, if the ASCII string is "The quick brown fox 
jumped over the lazy dog", then the ASCII character 'T' shall be positioned so it is transmitted first and the ASCII 
character 'g' shall be positioned so it is transmitted last. 
Unless otherwise specified, alphanumeric characters will conform to the ISO Latin 1 ASCII character set as shown in 
section 5.1.3. Other parameters consisting of 2 or more data bytes shall be transmitted least significant byte first. 
The type of data shall also be identified for each parameter. Data may be either status or measured. Status specifies the 
present state of a multi-state parameter or function as a result of action taken by the transmitting node. This action is the 
result of a calculation which uses local and/or network “measured” and/or “status” information. Note that specific 
confirmation of this action is not necessarily assured. For instance, the status may indicate that a solenoid has been 
activated, yet no measurement may have been taken to ensure the solenoid accomplished its function. Examples of 
status-type data are: engine brakes are enabled, PTO speed control is active, cruise control is active, the cruise control is 
in the “set” state of operation (as opposed to a measured indication that the “set” switch contacts are closed), fault codes, 
torque/speed control override modes, desired speed/speed limit, engine torque mode, engine's desired operating speed, 
engine's operating speed asymmetry adjustment, etc. 
Measured data conveys the current value of a parameter as measured or observed by the transmitting node to determine 
the condition of the defined parameter. Examples of measured-type data are: boost pressure, ignition on/off, cruise set 
switch activated, maximum cruise speed, cruise set speed, engine speed, percent load at current speed, etc. 
 A device shall not receive SPN data from the network segment and retransmit that same SPN data using the same SPN 
back onto the same network segment. 
5.1.3 ISO Latin 1 Character Set 
 There are 191 graphic characters of the ISO 8859-1 Latin 1 Character set show below. Unless otherwise specified, only 
these 191 character values are permitted for ASCII parameters. The terminology 'ASCII characters' and 'printable ASCII 
characters' are used in J1939 to refer to this set of 191 graphic character values. 
 The remaining 65 characters values (0 through 31 and 127 through 159) are control functions. According to ISO 8859-1, 
these character values are defined in ISO 6429. The terminology 'ASCII control characters' and 'non-printable ASCII 
characters' are used in J1939 to refer to this set of 65 character values. As specified in ISO 6429, the character value 0 
(zero) is the 'NULL' character. 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 4 -
Horizontal boldface characters are the single hexidecimal digit representing the lower nibble of the single byte code for 
the character. Vertical boldface characters are the single hexidecimal digit representing the upper nibble of the single byte 
code for the character. 
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 A B C D E F 
0 --------------------- should not be displayed ------------------------
1 --------------------- should not be displayed ------------------------
2 space ! " # $ % & ' ( ) * + , - . / 
3 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 : ; < = > ? 
4 @ A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O 
5 P Q R S T U V W X Y Z [ \ ] ^ _ 
6 ` a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o 
7 p q r s t u v w x y z { | } ~ nil 
8 --------------------- should not be displayed ------------------------
9 --------------------- should not be displayed ------------------------
A nil ¡ ¢ £ ¤ ¥ | § ¨ © ª « ¬ - ® ¯ 
B ° ± ² ³ ´ µ ¶ · ¸ ¹ º » ¼ ½ ¾ ¿ 
C À Á Â Ã Ä Å Æ Ç È É Ê Ë Ì Í Î Ï 
D Ð Ñ Ò Ó Ô Õ Ö × Ø Ù Ú Û Ü Ý Þ ß 
E à á â ã ä å æ ç è é ê ë ì í î ï 
F ð ñ ò ó ô õ ö ÷ ø ù ú û ü ý þ ÿ 
5.1.4 Parameter Ranges 
Table 1 defines the ranges used to determine the validity of a transmitted signal. Table 2 defines the ranges used to 
denote the state of a discrete parameter and Table 3 defines the ranges used to denote the state of a control mode 
command. The values in the range “error indicator” provide a means for a module to immediately indicate that valid 
parametric data is not currently available due to some type of error in the sensor, sub-system, or module. 
The values in the range “not available” provide a means for a module to transmit a message which contains a parameter 
that is not available or not supported in that module. The values in the range “not requested” provide a means for a 
device to transmit a command message and identify those parameters where no response is expected from the receiving 
device.
If a component failure prevents the transmission of valid data for a parameter, the error indicator as described in Tables 1 
and 2 should be used in place of that parameter’s data. However, if the measured or calculated data has yielded a value 
that is valid yet exceeds the defined parameter range, the error indicator should not be used. The data should be 
transmitted using the appropriate minimum or maximum parameter value. 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 5 -
5.1.5 Assignment of Ranges to New Parameters 
This section is intended to define a set of recommended SLOTs (Scaling, Limit, Offset, and Transfer Function) which can 
be used when parameters are added to J1939. This permits data consistency to be maintained as much as possible 
between parameters of a given type (temperature, pressure, speed, etc.). Each SLOT is intended to provide a range and 
resolution suitable for most parameters within a given type. When necessary, a different scaling factor or offset can be 
used. All SLOTs should be based on a power of 2 scaling from another SLOT. This will minimize the math required for 
any internal scaling and reduce the opportunity for misinterpreted values. Offsets should be selected preferably on the 
following basis: 
 a. Offset = 0, or 
 b. Offset = 50% (equal ± range) 
Appendix A defines the recommended SLOTs to be used when ranges are assigned to new parameters. 
 Unless otherwise specified, all pressure SLOTs are measured as gage pressure. 
TABLE 1 - TRANSMITTED SIGNAL RANGES 
 Range Name 1 byte 2 bytes 4 bytes ASCII
 Valid Signal 0 to 250 0 to 64 255 0 to 4 211 081 215 1 to 254 
 0016 to FA16 000016 to FAFF16 0000000016 to FAFFFFFF16 0116 to FE16
 
 Parameter specific 251 64 256 to 64 511 4 211 081 216 to 4 227 858 431 none 
 indicator FB16 FB0016 to FBFF16 FBxxxxxx16
 
 Reserved range for 252 to 253 64 512 to 65 023 4 227 858 432 to 4 261 412 863 none 
 future indicator bits FC16 to FD16 FC0016 to FDFF16 FC00000016 to FDFFFFFF16
 
 Error indicator 254 65 024 to 65 279 4 261 412 864 to 4 278 190 079 0 
 FE16 FExx16 FExxxxxx16 0016
 
 Not available 255 65 280 to 65 535 4 278 190 080 to 4 294 967 294 255 
 or not requested FF16 FFxx16 FFxxxxxx16 FF16
TABLE 2 - TRANSMITTED VALUES FOR DISCRETE PARAMETERS (MEASURED) 
Range Name Transmitted Value
Disabled (off, passive, etc.) 00 
Enabled (on, active, etc.) 01 
Error indicator 10 
Not available or not installed 11 
TABLE 3 - TRANSMITTED VALUES FOR CONTROL COMMANDS (STATUS) 
Range Name Transmitted Value
Command to disable function (turn off, etc.) 00 
Command to enable function (turn on, etc.) 01 
Reserved 10 
Don't care/take no action (leave function as is) 11 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 6 -
5.1.6 Adding Parameters to Groups 
Several of the Parameter Groups contain bytes that are not defined and may be replaced with new parameters as 
appropriate. If existing parameter group definitions do not permit the inclusion of a new parameter, a new parameter 
group may be defined. Refer to SAE J1939 for additional definitions and abbreviations for instructions for adding new 
parameters to parameter groups and for requesting new parameter group numbers. 
In general, parameters should be grouped into parameter groups as follows: 
a. By function (Oil, Coolant, Fuel, etc.) and not by type (temperature, pressure, speed, etc.) 
b. With similar update rates (to minimize unnecessary overhead) 
c. By common subsystem (the device likely to measure and send data) 
5.1.7 Transmission Repetition Rates (Update Rates) 
5.1.7.1 Definition of Transmission Repetition Rate 
All transmission repetition rates defined in SAE J1939/71 are nominal rates. The actual transmission repetition rate on 
the network should be at this rate plus/minus the “typical” jitter which occurs in microcontroller based systems. The 
average rate should be the nominal value. 
5.1.7.2 Transmission Repetition Rate for Engine Speed and Directly Associated Data (Crank Angle or Time Based 
Update Rates) 
Some parameters may be calculated and/or updated based on engine crank angle rather than at a specific time interval. 
When this is the case the reference to a specific update rate is not accurate because this time will change based on the 
speed of the engine. The primary goal is to minimize the latency associated with sampling, calculating and transmitting 
the data without overburdening the network. There are many approaches to sampling the data to be converted and sent 
over the network. The two preferred approaches are: (a) Time-based sampling, calculating and transmission; and (b) A 
hybrid time-based and engine crank angle-based sampling, calculating and transmission where the number of crank 
angle degrees between updates is modified based on the current operating speed in order to maintain an update rate 
within an acceptable range (see Figure 1). Because there are multiple ways to acquire and transmit data onto the 
network the following guidelines have been defined for the engine speed and directly associated data. 
1. At speeds above 500 rpm, the time from sampling to message transmission shall not exceed 12 ms. Systems that 
acquire engine speed information via period measurement inherently have less time delay at higher speeds. Above 
1000 rpm, for instance, the time from sampling to message transmission shall range from 5 to 30 ms. Less time is 
required because the period measurement takes less time at higher speeds. How much time is saved depends on 
the number of crank angle degrees used to perform the period measurement. 
2. “Normal” update rates: 
 a. Time based updates will occur every 20 ms. 
 b. Hybrid time based and engine crank angle based updates are shown in Figure 1 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 7 -
FIGURE 1 - LIMITS OF HYBRID UPDATE RATES 
(R) 5.1.7.3 Transmission Repetition Rate for On-change Messages 
Some periodic messages contain information that is of particular interest when a state change occurs. For example, it is 
desirable to immediately broadcast a change in the engine configuration rather than waiting a significant period of time for the 
next periodic update window. 
Messages contain information that may change states at a very high rate. A rapidly changing state is not useful to 
consumers of this information and unnecessarily increases bus loading. An example of this would be a switch state in a 
cab message. 
Transmission repetition rate definition for these messages takes the form of: 
Every MAXUPDATEPERIOD and on CHANGECRITERA but no faster than every MINUPDATEPERIOD 
Where:
 CHANGECRITERIA is the criterion that prompts an immediate broadcast of a new message. 
 MAXUPDATEPERIOD is the maximum period of the message. When CHANGECRITERIA is not satisfied, this 
is the preferred period of the message. 
 MINUPDATEPERIOD is the minimum period of the message. If CHANGECRITERIA indicates the message 
should be broadcast more often, the period must be equal to MINUPDATEPERIOD. This does not apply to the 
first message after a periodic broadcast. 
Limits of Hybrid 
Update Rates
M axim um Lim it
Minim um Lim it
Possible Update Rate Courses
Example for 4 cylinder engine
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
0 500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000
RPM
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 8 -
Two acceptable implementations are illustrated below. In each illustration, the horizontal line represents time, the vertical 
bars topped with a numbered circle represent messages, and the diagonal line represents a timer that counts down to zero, 
which triggers the transmission of the next periodic message. In both illustrations, all messages are triggered by 
MAXUPDATEPERIOD except for message 2, which is triggered by CHANGECRITERIA. 
Figure 2 shows the method where CHANGECRITERA results in extra messages that do not change the timing of the 
subsequent periodic messages. In this illustration, message 2 is triggered by CHANGECRITERIA, but since the 
countdown timer is not reset, message 3 is then broadcast after MAXUPDATEPERIOD elapses since message 1.
MAXUPDATEPERIOD MAXUPDATEPERIOD
1 2 3 4
FIGURE 2  ON-CHANGE IMPLEMENTATION OPTION 1 
Figure 3 shows the method where the message period is controlled by the last broadcast message. In this method, 
message 2 resets the timer, forcing message 3 to occur at a later time than if CHANGECRITERIA had not been satisfied. 
 This implementation results in a lower average bus loading, as illustrated by the lack of message 4 in the same overall 
time as shown in the previous illustration. 
MAXUPDATEPERIOD
1 2 3
FIGURE 3  ON-CHANGE IMPLEMENTATION OPTION 2 
This message definition was created after many “on change” messages were published. As a result, the implementation 
of those messages may vary from the description in this section. This section is intended to provide uniformity of future 
implementations of “on change” messages.
After July 2010, new implementations of “on change” messages are expected to conform to this recommended practice. 
Many existing implementations prior to that date comply with this definition and no change is required.
While this section describes the preferred implementation, existing implementations prior to July 2010 are grandfathered, 
and may have an alternate acceptable definition. 
5.1.8 Naming Convention for Engine Parameters 
When there are multiple instances of the same parameter on the same component (i.e., exhaust ports), the following 
naming convention will by used. While facing the engine from the flywheel housing, left bank (LB) parameters are 
assigned prior to the right bank (RB) parameters. Front parameters are assigned prior to the rear or back parameters 
(with the rear/back being the end containing the flywheel housing). For a six cylinder in-line engine, the position furthest 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 9 -
from the flywheel will be identified as 1. For a 12 cylinder “V” engine, the position furthest from the flywheel on the left 
bank will be identified as 1, followed by the position next closest to the flywheel on the left bank. When only one 
parameter is required or available, the parameter denoted as number 1 should be used. (i.e., an engine having only one 
turbocharger would use Turbocharger 1 Compressor Inlet Temperature when broadcasting the temperature). 
5.2 Parameter Definitions 
This section provides a description of each parameter used for in the SAE J1939 network. The description includes data 
length, data type, resolution, range, and a tag (label) for reference. 
After power on, a node should internally set the “availability bits” of received parameters as not available and operate with 
default values until valid data is received. When transmitting, undefined bytes should be sent as 255 (FF16) and 
undefined bits should be sent as 1. 
5.2.1 Control Parameters 
5.2.1.1 Net Brake Torque (Power) 
The measured torque (or power output) of a “fully equipped” engine. A fully equipped engine is an engine equipped with 
accessories necessary to perform its intended service. This includes, but is not restricted to, the basic engine, including 
fuel, oil, and cooling pumps, plus intake air system, exhaust system, cooling system, alternator, starter, emissions, and 
noise control. Accessories which are not necessary for the operation of the engine, but may be engine mounted, are not 
considered part of a fully equipped engine. These items include, but are not restricted to, power steering pump systems, 
vacuum pumps, and compressor systems for air conditioning, brakes, and suspensions. When these accessories are 
integral with the engine, the torque/power absorbed in an unloaded condition may be determined and added to the net 
brake torque. (Refer to SAE J1349.)
Net brake torque is calculated by subtracting friction torque from indicated torque for the purposes of this document. 
5.2.1.2 Friction Torque 
 The torque required to drive the engine alone as “fully equipped.” 
 Friction torque is equal to the sum of Nominal Friction - Percent Torque (SPN 514) and Estimated Engine Parasitic 
Losses - Percent Torque (SPN 2978). Nominal Friction - Percent Torque (SPN 514) includes Estimated Pumping - 
Percent Torque (SPN 5398).
5.2.1.3 Indicated Torque 
Indicated torque is the torque developed in the cylinders. It is defined as the sum of the net brake torque and friction 
torque.
 5.2.2 ASCII Parameters 
This section describes the standard practices for ASCII data parameters. SAE J1939 has three (3) standard ASCII SLOT 
Types for different data length designation techniques, which are summarized in Table 4. Some of the ASCII SLOT 
Types use a delimiter technique for data length designation which may reduce the ASCII characters available for 
parameter data. The ASCII SLOT Types are discussed individually in more detail in the sections 5.2.1.4, 5.2.1.7, and 
5.2.1.8.
The SLOT Table in Appendix A may have multiple ASCII SLOTs for the same ASCII SLOT Type to accommodate 
different maximum bytes allowed. The numerical designator in the ASCII SLOT Name reflects the maximum bytes 
allowed for an ASCII SLOT. For example, the ASCII SLOT 'SAEatad0200' has a maximum length of 200 bytes while the 
ASCII SLOT 'SAEatad0025' has a maximum length of 25 bytes. 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 10 -
TABLE 4 - Summary of ASCII SLOT Types 
ASCII SLOT 
Type
Description Data Length 
Indication
Delimiter
Character
included in 
Data Length? 
Any Characters 
not allowed 
within the Data? 
Required to fill 
Data to a specific 
length?
Fixed
Length
ASCII
The Data length is 
a fixed or constant 
number of bytes 
Fixed
number of 
bytes of 
data
No. The 
length
indicates
required data 
space for 
parameter
data.
No. All of the 
ASCII
characters may 
be used in the 
Data
Yes, must 
provide data in 
all of the 
required
number of 
bytes
Character
Delimited,
Variable
Length
ASCII
The Data length 
may vary within 
defined limits and 
a specific ASCII 
character is placed 
following the Data 
to indicate the end 
of the parameter 
data
Length
indicated by 
the delimiter 
character
(always
required).
No. The 
length
indicates
allowed data 
space for 
parameter
data.
Yes. The 
delimiter
character is not 
allowed within 
the parameter 
data, since it 
will be 
interpreted as 
the delimiter 
No, unless the 
ASCII data 
SPN definition 
has a minimum 
data length of 1 
or more 
characters
Byte Count 
Delimited,
Variable
Length
ASCII
The Data length 
may vary within 
defined limits and 
a separate data 
parameter (SPN) 
within the PGN 
data field specifies 
the byte length of 
the ASCII Data 
Separate
SPN that 
specifies the 
ASCII data 
byte length 
No. The 
length
indicates
allowed data 
space for 
parameter
data.
No. All of the 
ASCII
characters may 
be used in the 
Data
No, unless the 
ASCII data 
SPN definition 
has a minimum 
data length of 1 
or more 
characters
5.2.1.4 ASCII Characters 
The character values for ASCII Characters are specified in Section 5.1.3 of J1939-71. By default, only the printable ASCII 
characters are allowed in the data for ASCII parameters. The ASCII control characters, or non-printable ASCII 
characters, are not allowed in the data for an ASCII parameter, unless the ASCII parameter definition explicitly states 
otherwise. SPN 162 and SPN 163 are examples of ASCII parameters with explicit statements allowing the use of ASCII 
control characters in the parameter data. 
5.2.1.5 ASCII Byte Order 
The standard practice for the ordering of data bytes for ASCII data parameters is defined in Section 5.1.2 of J1939-71.
5.2.1.6 ASCII SLOT Type - Fixed Length ASCII 
The Fixed Length ASCII SLOT Type defines an ASCII data parameter with a fixed, or non-varying, number of ASCII 
characters in the data field. All ASCII characters are available for use in the SPN data with this type of ASCII SLOT. 
Some examples of SPNs using a fixed length ASCII SLOT Type are SPNs 162, 3620, and 4254. 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 11 -
5.2.1.6.1 SPN Data Definition for Fixed Length ASCII 
An SPN using a fixed length ASCII SLOT Type has the following data definition characteristics: 
 The 'Resolution' property indicates "ASCII" 
 The 'Data Length' property is a fixed byte length, such as "5 bytes" 
All ASCII characters are available for use in the ASCII data with this type of ASCII SLOT. 
The 'Data Length' property defines the required byte length of the data for this SPN. If it is possible to have actual SPN 
data that is shorter than the required data length, then the SPN data definition should specify the acceptable ASCII 
character(s) for an application to use to fill or pad the remaining data bytes. The definition should indicate if there is a 
standard for preference for inserting the pad or fill characters before or after the actual SPN data. 
5.2.1.6.2 PGN Data Field Details for Fixed Length ASCII Parameters 
Within the PGN data field, the specified number of bytes of data is required in the data field position for the fixed length 
ASCII data SPN, whether the source application supports the SPN or not.
The data for a subsequent parameter shall immediately follow the required number of data bytes. 
If the source application is reporting data for the SPN, then the source application must fill each of the data bytes for the 
SPN. If the actual SPN data is shorter than the required data length, then the source application is required to fill any 
remaining data bytes. The remaining data bytes shall be filled according to the SPN definition. If the SPN definition does 
not specified the data fill method, then the application shall fill the remaining bytes as appropriate for the data content. 
If the source application does not support the SPN, then the source application is still required to fill each of the SPN data 
bytes with the "not available" value. 
5.2.1.7 ASCII SLOT Type - Character Delimited, Variable Length ASCII 
The Character Delimited, Variable Length ASCII SLOT Type defines an ASCII data parameter with a varying number of 
ASCII characters in the data field, and uses a specific ASCII character (delimiter) to indicate the end of the ASCII text for 
the parameter. All ASCII characters except for the delimiter character are permitted in the SPN data with this type of 
ASCII SLOT. The delimiter character is not permitted in the SPN data because it will be interpreted as the end of data 
indicator.
The delimiter character is not considered part of the data for the parameter. Consequently, the delimiter character is not 
included in the Data Length maximum byte length value in the SLOT definition. The delimiter is a mechanism within the 
PGN data content to denote the end of the parameter data for the variable length ASCII parameter. However, this 
fundamental perspective should not be seen as restricting how the parameter data is handled internally by an application. 
Some examples of SPNs using a character delimited, variable length ASCII SLOT Types are SPNs 237 and 2902. 
5.2.1.7.1 SPN Data Definition for Character Delimited, Variable Length ASCII 
An SPN using a Character Delimited, Variable Length ASCII SLOT Type has the following data definition characteristics: 
 The 'Resolution' property indicates "ASCII" 
 The 'Data Length' property indicates a variable length, such as "Variable - up to 200 characters" 
 The 'Data Length' property indicates the delimiter character, such as "followed by an '*' delimiter" 
All ASCII characters, except for the delimiter character, are available for use in the SPN data with this type of ASCII 
SLOT. The delimiter character is not permitted in the SPN data for this type of ASCII SLOT because it will be interpreted 
as the end of data indicator. The asterisk (*) character is the standard delimiter character for J1939 parameters of this 
SLOT type. There is a SLOT type that uses the NULL character (value 0) as the delimiter character. The SLOT type with 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 12 -
a NULL delimiter character is appropriate when there is a need to have the asterisk character available as a valid data 
character rather than a delimiter. 
The 'Data Length' property defines the maximum length available for the ASCII data for the SPN. There is no minimum 
data length required for the data, unless the Data Length property explicitly states otherwise. The delimiter character is 
not included in the maximum data length value in the 'Data Length' property. The delimiter character is specified within 
the SLOT definition and SPN definition because it places a restriction on the allowed ASCII characters for the SPN data. 
It is included in the 'Data Length' property since this property appears in the PGN definition content. 
The delimiter character is not considered part of the data for the parameter. This delimiter character perspective is not 
meant to restrict how the parameter data is handled internally by an application. An application may choose to include 
the delimiter as part of the parameter data within its memory storage; or alternately, an application may choose to add the 
delimiter as the parameter data is placed into the PGN data structure and to remove the delimiter as the parameter data 
is extracted from the PGN data structure and place into memory/storage. This fundamental perspective about the 
delimiter not being part of the parameter data is important when the SPN data is exchanged through means other than 
the PGN, such as through Memory Access Protocol with SPN spatial addressing. Since the delimiter character is not part 
of the parameter data, then the delimiter character shall not be included when exchanged through other means. For 
Memory Access Protocol, the content of the DM16 Binary Data Transfer PGN shall not include the delimiter character. 
5.2.1.7.2 PGN Data Field Details for Character Delimited, Variable Length ASCII 
Within the PGN data field, the maximum data length defines the maximum number of bytes available for the ASCII data 
for this SPN in the data field position. The designated delimiter character shall immediately follow the last valid byte of 
ASCII data for the SPN in the PGN data field. The maximum data length does not define the required number of bytes for 
the data. A source application should not fill or pad the ASCII data for this type of SPN just to occupy the maximum 
length allowed. The delimiter character denotes the end of the data for the ASCII data SPN and indicates the starting 
position for a subsequent parameter. The delimiter is a mechanism within the PGN data content to denote the end of the 
parameter data for the variable length ASCII parameter.
The data for a subsequent parameter shall immediately follow the delimiter character. 
The delimiter character is always required after a delimited variable length ASCII data field within the PGN data field, 
including situations when 
 the delimited variable length ASCII parameter is not support by the source application 
 the delimited variable length ASCII parameter is the only parameter in the data field 
 the delimited variable length ASCII parameter data is zero (0) bytes or characters in length 
 the delimited variable length ASCII parameter is the last parameter in the PGN data field 
 the delimited variable length ASCII parameter data uses the maximum data length available for the SPN 
It is not necessary to include ASCII text for a delimited Variable Length ASCII parameter; however, the delimiter is always 
required. In other words, it is acceptable to transmit zero-length ASCII text for a variable length ASCII parameter as long 
as the delimiter character is included in the PGN data.
The asterisk (*) character is the standard delimiter character for J1939 parameters of this SLOT type. There is a SLOT 
type that uses the NULL character (Hex value 0) as the delimiter character. The SLOT type with a NULL delimiter 
character is appropriate when there is a need to have the asterisk character available as a valid data character rather 
than a delimiter. 
Several examples are provided below to illustrate the PGN data field content for several situations. For these examples 
the letters 'a' through 'e' represent the data for 5 consecutive variable length ASCII parameters (asterisk * delimited) 
within the PGN data field. 
Example 1: Data provided for each parameter aaaa*bbb*c*dddd*eee* 
Example 2: Data only for parameters 'a' and 'b' aaaaaaaa*bbbbbbbbbbb**** 
Example 3: Data only for parameter 'a' and 'd' *bbbbbbbb**ddddd** 
Example 4: Data only for parameter 'e' ****eeeeee* 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 13 -
5.2.1.8 ASCII SLOT Type - Byte Count Delimited, Variable Length ASCII 
The Byte Count Delimited, Variable Length ASCII SLOT Type defines an ASCII data parameter (SPN) with a varying 
number of ASCII characters in the data field, and relies upon a separate parameter (SPN) to report the ASCII data 
parameter byte length. The ASCII data SPN and the separate ASCII data byte length SPN must be transmitted in the 
same PGN, since it is possible for the length of the ASCII data to vary from one instance of the SPN data to another 
instance of the SPN data. All ASCII characters are permitted in the SPN data with this type of ASCII SLOT. 
Special design considerations must be recognized by any application that is the source of a PGN with an SPN of the this 
ASCII SLOT type. One design consideration involves maintaining synchronization between the value for the associated 
Number of Bytes SPN and the length of the ASCII data SPN. Another design consideration involves the value reported 
for the Data Length SPN value if the ASCII parameter is not available or supported by the source. 
Some examples of SPNs using a byte count delimited, variable length ASCII SLOT Type are SPNs 509 and 3075. SPN 
509 is the ASCII data SPN and SPN 3070 reports the byte length of SPN 509. Similarly, SPN 3075 is the ASCII data 
SPN and SPN 3072 reports the byte length of SPN 3075. 
5.2.1.8.1 SPN Data Definition for Byte Count Delimited, Variable Length ASCII 
An SPN using a Variable Length ASCII with Byte Count Parameter SLOT data type has the following data definition 
characteristics: 
 The 'Resolution' property indicates "ASCII" 
 The 'Data Length' property indicates a variable length, such as "Variable - up to 100 characters" 
 The 'Data Length' property does not specify a delimiter character 
 The Description Notes identify the Number of Bytes SPN that reports the ASCII data byte length 
All ASCII characters are available for use in the ASCII data with this type of ASCII SLOT. 
The 'Data Length' property defines the maximum length available for the ASCII data for the SPN. There is no minimum 
data length required for the ASCII data, unless the Data Length property explicitly states otherwise. A source application 
should not fill or pad the ASCII data for this type of SPN just to occupy the maximum length allowed. 
5.2.1.8.2 PGN Data Field Details for Byte Count Delimited, Variable Length ASCII 
Within the PGN data field, the maximum data length defines the maximum number of bytes available for the ASCII data 
for this SPN in the data field position. The maximum data length does not define the required number of bytes for the 
data. A source application should not fill or pad the ASCII data for this type of SPN just to occupy the maximum length 
allowed.
The Number of Bytes SPN shall be positioned somewhere before the ASCII data SPN within the PGN data field to enable 
recipient applications to determine the end of the data for the ASCII data SPN. The source application must make sure 
the value in the Number of Bytes SPN is correct for the length of the instance of ASCII data SPN. The Number of Bytes 
SPN denotes the end of the ASCII data SPN and indicates the starting position for a subsequent parameter. The Number 
of Bytes SPN is the mechanism within the PGN data content to denote the end of the data for the variable length ASCII 
parameter.
The data for a subsequent parameter shall immediately follow the specified number of bytes after the starting byte 
position for the ASCII data SPN. 
5.3 Parameter Group Definitions 
(R) Parameter Groups (PGNs) for use on the SAE J1939 network may be found in Appendix C. All undefined bits are to be 
transmitted with a value of "1." All undefined bits should be received as "don't care" (either masked out or ignored). This 
permits them to be defined and used in the future without causing any incompatibilities. 
(R) Messages that are requesting control over the receiving device (TSC1, TC1) are transmitted at high rate only during the 
time when the control is active, but may be optionally sent at a slow rate as a "heartbeat." For TSC1, it is expected that 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 14 -
the transmitting device indicate to the receiving device that it no longer requests control by sending at least one broadcast 
with the override control modes set to 00. In the absence of continued broadcasts from a requesting module, the receiving 
device shall default to its normal mode after two update periods. 
(R) The size of the CAN data field is 8 bytes. Parameter groups that are 0-8 data bytes in length use the services of the Data 
Link layer (Refer to SAE J1939-21). Parameter groups that exceed 8 data bytes or parameter group definitions that are 
variable in length and may exceed 8 data bytes shall utilize the services of the Transport Protocol. (Refer to SAE J1939-
21.)
5.4 Application Notes 
5.4.1 Parameters with Multiple Sources 
 Each parameter received by a node for control purposes shall be configurable by the system integrator to identify the 
primary source of the data, as well as the secondary source, if applicable. It is to be expected that the system integrator 
configure each receiving device on a network identically. A secondary source of data is defined to be a device on the 
network that measures the data independently of the primary source of that data. 
5.4.2 Conventions for Parameter Placement Notation and Unspecified Bits in Message Definitions 
 This section explains the various notations used by J1939 documents to specify the position of parameter data within the 
PGN data field and illustrates the bit placement associated with the notations. This section also explains how to deal with 
the unspecified bits in the data field definition. The information in this section is intended to aid the reader in determining
the proper placement of parameter data based upon the Start Position and Length attributes specified in the PGN 
definition. The information in this section is also intended to serve as a guide for how to properly define the Start Position
attribute to define the placement of parameter data in a PGN.
5.4.3 Terminology for Parameter Placement 
5.4.3.1 Parameter Data Length Classification Terminology 
Three different classifications of parameters have been defined for the purposes of discussing parameter placement. The 
classifications are based upon the parameter data length. The three classifications are fractional byte length, integer byte 
length, and variable byte length. The 'Start Position' notation is explained according to each of the parameter data length 
classifications. 
Fractional Byte Length: Term used to classify a parameter with a fixed data length where the data length is not an 
integer number of bytes. A parameter with a data length of 2 bits, a parameter with a data length of 5 bits, and 
a parameter with a data length of 10 bits are examples of fractional byte length parameters. 
Integer Byte Length: Term used to classify a parameter with a fixed data length where the data length is an integer 
number of bytes. A parameter with a data length of 1 byte, a parameter with a data length of 2 bytes, and a 
parameter with a data length of 8 bits are examples of integer byte length parameters. 
Variable Byte Length: Term used to classify a parameter with a variable data length that is an integer number of 
bytes. A parameter with a data length of "Variable - up to 200 characters" is and example of a variable byte 
length parameter. Alphanumeric or textual data parameters are the primary examples of variable byte length 
parameters.
5.4.3.2 Start Position Terminology 
The following terms are used throughout the parameter placement to describe the 'Start Position' notation style. 
Fixed: Term used to describe a 'Start Position' notation that defines an absolute or fixed position for the placement of 
the parameter data in the data field. Some examples of fixed start position notations are '3', '5.4', '1-2', and '1.7-
2',
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 15 -
Equation: Term used to describe a 'Start Position' notation that defines the placement of the parameter data using an 
equation rather than an absolute position. Equation start position notations are appropriate when the 
parameter data length is variable, when the PGN data field has multiple variable length parameters, or when 
there are fixed length parameters after variable length parameters in the data field. Some examples of equation 
start position notations are '14-n', '2 to n', '5 to A', and 'A+1 to B'. 
Field: Term used to describe a 'Start Position' notation that defines the placement of the parameter data in terms of 
its relative sequence in the data field rather than with an absolute position or equation. Field start position 
notations are appropriate when the PGN data field has multiple consecutive variable length parameters in the 
data field or the parameter is repeated in the data field. The placement order of fields follows the alphabetical 
sequence of the start positions. Some examples of field start position notations are 'a', 'b', and 'c'. 
5.4.3.3 Start Position Diagrams 
Illustrations are included for many of the parameter placement notation styles to help clarify the parameter placement 
practices and the transmission order of the data over the J1939 data link. These illustrations include one or more of the 
following diagrams. 
Data Definition: The Data diagram serves to illustrate the parameter data bits for the example data, shown where the 
data bits go highest order bit to lowest order significant bit in a left to right manner. Individual bits are identified 
with a 'b' followed by a number. The 'b' is the abbreviation for 'bit' and the number denotes the significance 
order of the bit, where bits with lower significance have a lower number value. This diagram serves as a 
convenient way of discussing bit placement for the J1939 data order practices. In the ASCII examples, the 'b' 
identifier may be preceded by a 'c' plus a number to designate the character instance. 
Placement: The Placement diagram illustrates the placement of the parameter bits using a common view of data in 
memory, where the bytes go most significant to least significant in a left to right manner and the bits within a 
byte go highest order to lowest order in a left to right manner. This diagram serves as a convenient way of 
discussing bit placement for the J1939 data order practices. 
Transmission Order: The Transmission Order diagram illustrates the parameter data bits in the order they are 
transmitted over the J1939 data link. As specified in J1939-21 Section 5.1.1, the data is transmitted in 
increasing byte order (i.e. byte 1, byte 2, byte 3, etc.) with the bits within a byte transmitted highest order bit first 
(i.e. bit 8, bit 7, bit 6, etc.). 
5.4.4 Guidelines for Parameter Placement 
The following guidelines provide the basis for the parameter data placement conventions. These guidelines and the 
conventional parameter placement methods should be applied when defining the placement of parameters in PGNs.
1. Parameters with less than 8 bits should reside within a byte boundary 
2. Parameters with more than 8 bits should either start or stop on a whole byte boundary 
3. Only parameters with more than 8 bits should span a byte boundary 
4. ASCII parameters, variable length parameters, and parameters with repeating data fields should start and 
stop on whole byte boundaries 
5. Byte ordering rules are specified in 5.1.2 Message Format. 
5.4.5 Start Position Notation and Parameter Placement 
The 'Start Position' specified for a parameter in the PGN definition and the 'Length' attribute of the parameter describes 
the placement of the parameter data into the PGN data field. Generally, the 'Start Position' notation reflects the bit 
position for the lowest order bit of the parameter data within the byte. When the parameter data is confined to a single 
byte, then the 'Start Position' consists of one numerical value declaring the position for the lowest order bit of the 
parameter data. When the parameter data spans one or more byte boundaries, then the 'Start Position' consists of two 
numerical values; each declaring the position for the lowest order bit of the parameter data in the lowest and highest order 
bytes. For numerical start position notation, the integer value identifies the byte and the decimal value identifies the bit 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 16 -
position (1 to 8, with 1 as the lowest order bit) within the byte. When the start position value does not include a decimal 
value, then the parameter data consumes the entire byte. 
The 'Start Position' notation has several formats to accommodate the different parameter data length types and the 
different parameter placement needs. For the purposes of parameter placement discussion, parameter data length is 
classified as fractional byte length (2 bits, 4 bits, 10 bits, etc.), integer byte length (1 byte, 2 byte, etc.), and variable byte
length. Each of these parameter length classifications have different requirements when it comes to specifying the 
position data field position of the data. This section explains the 'Start Position' notation according to each of the 
parameter data length classifications. 
5.4.6 Start Position Notation for Fractional Byte Length Parameters 
Fractional byte length parameters are parameters with a data length that is not an integer number of bytes, e.g. 2 bits, 5 
bits, 10 bits, etc. The information in Table 5 presents the 'Start Position' notations used with fractional byte length 
parameters and explains the respective parameter placement. Figure 4 through Figure 8 show examples of these 'Start 
Position' notations and illustrate the parameter placement.
The following guidelines explain how to determine data placement from the 'Start Position' and 'Length' attributes for a 
parameter with Fractional Byte Length data. 
1. In the Start Position notation, the number before the decimal point identifies the byte and the number after 
the decimal point identifies the bit position within that byte.
2. If the data length is less than 1 byte and all data bits are within the same byte, then the Start Position 
consists of one numerical value. 
3. If the data length is larger than 1 byte or the data spans a byte boundary, then the Start Position consists 
of two numerical values separated by a comma or dash. The number before the comma or dash is the 
first position designation and the number after the comma or dash is the second position designation. 
4. If a position designation in the Start Position does not have a decimal value, then the start bit is at bit 1 
(one) in that byte. For example, a position designation of '2' is equivalent to the position designation '2.1'. 
 This abbreviated style is only used when the data occupies the whole byte. In Table 5, a designation of 
"R" is equivalent to the designation "R.1", and a designation of "S" is equivalent to the designation "S.1". 
This is illustrated in Figure 6 through Figure 8. In Figure 6, the second position designation is '2', so the 
lowest order data bit placed into byte 2 will be positioned at bit 1. 
5. For fractional byte length data, the least significant data bit is always positioned at the first position 
designation, and each next higher order data bit is placed into the next higher order data field bit position. 
 In Table 5, "R.x" represents the first position designation, so the least significant bit of the data is placed 
at bit 'x' of byte 'R', the next higher order bit of the data is placed at bit 'x+1' of byte 'R', etc. This is 
illustrated in Figure 4 through Figure 8. 
6. When higher order data bit placement reaches a byte boundary and the next higher data field byte is an 
intermediate byte between the bytes specified in the first and second position designations, then the next 
higher order data bit is placed at bit 1 of the next higher order data field byte and additional higher order 
data bits are placed in next higher order fashion from that point. This is illustrated in Figure 8. In Figure 
8, the Start Position notation identifies byte 6 in the first position designation and byte 8 in the second 
position designation, so byte 7 is an intermediate byte. When bit placement reaches byte 7, the next 
higher order data bit (bit 'b9'), is place at bit 1 of byte 7 and the next higher order data bits are placed into 
byte 7 in next higher order fashion from that point. 
7. When higher order data bit placement reaches a byte boundary and the next higher data field byte is the 
byte identified in the second position designation in the Start Position, then the number after the decimal 
in the second position designation indicates the bit position in that byte where the next higher order data 
bit is placed in the byte and any remaining higher order data bits are to be placed in next higher order 
fashion from that point. In Table 5, "S.w" represents the second position designation, so when data bit 
placement reaches byte 'S' of the data field, the next higher order bit of the data is placed at bit 'w' of byte 
'S', the next higher order bit of data after that is place at bit 'w+1' of byte 'S', etc. This is illustrated in 
Figure 5, Figure 7, and Figure 8. In Figure 8, the second position designation is '8.6'. When bit 
placement gets to byte 8, then next higher order data bit, bit 'b17', is placed at bit 6 of byte 8 and the last 
two bits, 'b18' and 'b19', are placed at bit 7 and bit 8 of byte 8, respectively. 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 17 -
TABLE 5 - START POSITION NOTATION FOR FRACTIONAL BYTE LENGTH PARAMETERS 
Start
Position
Length Interpretation Example 
Illustration
R.x Y bits 
(Y less 
than 8) 
Fixed position of the data within a byte boundary for 
a fractional byte length parameter with less than 8 
bits. The parameter occupies 'Y' number of bits of 
byte 'R' with the least significant bit of the parameter 
data at bit 'x' in byte 'R' and the most significant bit 
of the parameter data is at bit ('x' + ('Y'-1)) in byte 
'R'.
Figure 4 
R.x-S.w Y bits 
(Y less 
than 8) 
Fixed position of the data across a byte boundary for 
a fractional byte length parameter with less than 8 
bits. The parameter occupies the most significant 
bits of byte 'R' from bit 'x' to bit 8 and the remaining 
number of data bits start from bit 'w' in byte 'S'. The 
least significant bit of the parameter data is placed 
at bit 'x' in byte 'R'.
Figure 5 
R.x-S Y bits 
(Y greater 
than 8) 
Fixed position of a fractional byte length parameter 
with more than 8 bits where the data crosses a byte 
boundary and stops on a whole byte. The parameter 
occupies the most significant bits of byte 'R' from bit 
'x' to bit 8 plus all whole bytes up to 'S'. 
Figure 6 
R-S.w Y bits 
(Y greater 
than 8) 
Fixed position of a fractional byte length parameter 
with more than 8 bits where the data crosses a byte 
boundary and starts on a whole byte. The parameter 
occupies all whole bytes from 'R' up to 'S' and the 
remaining modulo-8 number of bits starting from bit 
'w' in byte 'S'. 
Figure 7, 
Figure 8** 
PGN Position Notation Start Position Length
5.4 5 bits (ex. PGN 0, SPN 3350)
Data Definition b5 b4 b3 b2 b1
MSb LSb
Placement MSb LSb
87654321
b5 b4 b3 b2 b1
MSb LSb
Transmission Order MSb LSb
87654321
b5 b4 b3 b2 b1
MSb LSb
Byte 5
Byte 5
FIGURE 4 - FRACTIONAL BYTE (LESS THAN 1 BYTE) WITHIN BYTE BOUNDARY 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 18 -
PGN Position Notation Start Position Length
7.6-8.1 5 bits (ex. PGN 64943, SPN 3287)
Data Definition b5 b4 b3 b2 b1
MSb LSb
Placement MSb LSb MSb LSb
8765432187654321
b5 b4 b3 b2 b1
MSb LSb
Transmission Order MSb LSb MSb LSb
8765432187654321
b3 b2 b1 b5 b4
LSb MSb
Byte 8 Byte 7
Byte 7 Byte 8
FIGURE 5 - FRACTIONAL BYTE (LESS THAN 1 BYTE) ACROSS BYTE BOUNDARY 
PGN Position Notation Start Position Length
1.7-2 10 bits (ex. PGN 64982, SPN 2660)
Data Definition b10 b9 b8 b7 b6 b5 b4 b3 b2 b1
MSb LSb
Placement MSb LSb MSb LSb
8765432187654321
b10 b9 b8 b7 b6 b5 b4 b3 b2 b1
MSb LSb
Transmission Order MSb LSb MSb LSb
8765432187654321
b2 b1 b10 b9 b8 b7 b6 b5 b4 b3
LSb MSb
Byte 2
Byte 2 Byte 1
Byte 1
FIGURE 6 - FRACTIONAL BYTE (LARGER THAN 1 BYTE) ENDING ON BYTE BOUNDARY 
PGN Position Notation Start Position Length
6-7.1 12 bits (ex. PGN 64955, SPN 3169)
Data Definition b12 b11 b10 b9 b8 b7 b6 b5 b4 b3 b2 b1
MSb LSb
Placement MSb LSb MSb LSb
8765432187654321
b12 b11 b10 b9 b8 b7 b6 b5 b4 b3 b2 b1
MSb LSb
Transmission Order MSb LSb MSb LSb
8765432187654321
b8 b7 b6 b5 b4 b3 b2 b1 b12 b11 b10 b9
LSb MSb
Byte 7 Byte 6
Byte 6 Byte 7
FIGURE 7 - FRACTIONAL BYTE (LARGER THAN 1 BYTE) STARTING ON BYTE BOUNDARY 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 19 -
PGN Position Notation Start Position Length
6-8.6 19 bits (ex. PGN 49920, SPN 3036)
Data Definition b19 b18 b17 b16 b15 b14 b13 b12 b11 b10 b9 b8 b7 b6 b5 b4 b3 b2 b1
MSb LSb
Placement MSb LSb MSb LSb MSb LSb
876543218765432187654321
b19 b18 b17 b16 b15 b14 b13 b12 b11 b10 b9 b8 b7 b6 b5 b4 b3 b2 b1
MSb LSb
Transmission Order MSb LSb MSb LSb MSb LSb
876543218765432187654321
b8 b7 b6 b5 b4 b3 b2 b1 b16 b15 b14 b13 b12 b11 b10 b9 b19 b18 b17
LSb MSb
Byte 6
** Note: This placement method is used in the various Diagnostics Messages in J1939-73 when passing the SPN number in the data field. The use of 
 this fractional byte placement model should be limited to passing the SPN number in the DMx messages.
Byte 8 Byte 7
Byte 6 Byte 7 Byte 8
FIGURE 8 - FRACTIONAL BYTE (LARGER THAN 1 BYTE) STARTING ON BYTE BOUNDARY 
5.4.7 Start Position Notation for Integer Byte Length Parameters 
The information in Table 66 and Table 7 presents 'Start Position' notations used with parameters with integer byte length. 
 Examples of these 'Start Position' notations are illustrated in Figure 9 through Figure 12. Integer byte length parameters 
are parameters with a fixed data length in whole bytes, e.g. 1 byte, 2 bytes, 4 bytes, 16 bits, etc. The placement of the 
data bytes for integer byte length parameters larger than 1 byte depends upon whether the parameter is 
non-alphanumeric (e.g. scaled data or state list) or alphanumeric. As noted in 5.1.2 Message Format, the placement or 
ordering of the data bytes for multiple byte parameters differs between alphanumeric and all other data types. The 
parameter definition must be referenced to determine if the parameter is non-alphanumeric or alphanumeric data. 
 TABLE 6 - START POSITION NOTATION FOR INTEGER BYTE LENGTH PARAMETERS (NON-ALPHANUMERIC) 
Start
Position
Length Interpretation Example 
Illustration
R 1 byte 
or
8 bits 
Fixed position of a one byte data parameter within a 
whole byte. The parameter occupies the entire byte 
'R'.
Figure 9 
R-S
R, S 
R
Y bytes 
or
16 bits 
Fixed position of a multiple byte data. Since this 
parameter is non-alphanumeric data (based upon 
parameter definition), the data is positioned so the 
Least Significant Byte is transmitted first, per 5.1.2.
The parameter occupies 'Y' number of bytes from 
byte 'R' through byte 'S'.
Figure 10,
Figure 11 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 20 -
TABLE 7 - START POSITION NOTATION FOR INTEGER BYTE LENGTH PARAMETERS (ALPHANUMERIC) 
Start
Position
Length Interpretation Example 
Illustration
R 1 byte 
or
8 bits 
Fixed position of a one byte data parameter within a 
whole byte. The parameter occupies the entire byte 
'R'.
Figure 9 
R-S Y bytes Fixed position of a multiple byte data. Since this 
parameter is alphanumeric data (based upon 
parameter definition), the data is positioned so the 
Most Significant Byte is transmitted first, per 5.1.2.
The parameter occupies 'Y' number of bytes from 
byte 'R' through byte 'S'. 
Figure 12 
'n' Y bytes Field position of a multiple bye data. Since this 
parameter is alphanumeric data (based upon 
parameter definition), the data is positioned so the 
Most Significant Byte is transmitted first, per 5.1.2. 
The parameter occupies 'Y' number of bytes from 
the point that the field starts (i.e. in the first byte 
following the previous field). 
Example (PGN 64912, SPN 3560 and 3561) 
Start Position Length 
 a 2 bytes (SPN 3560) 
 b 2 bytes (SPN 3561) 
The structure of these two parameters 
repeats in the data field. The 2 bytes of 
data for SPN 3561 (field 'b') is placed in the 
2 bytes following the last byte of SPN 3560 
(field 'a'). 
PGN Position Notation Start Position Length
3 8 bits (ex. PGN 61451, SPN 2928)
3 1 byte (ex. PGN 256, SPN 525)
Data Definition b8 b7 b6 b5 b4 b3 b2 b1
MSb LSb
Transmission Order MSb LSb
87654321
b8 b7 b6 b5 b4 b3 b2 b1
MSb LSb
Byte 3
FIGURE 9 - SINGLE BYTE DATA PLACEMENT (NON-ALPHANUMERIC AND ALPHANUMERIC) 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 21 -
PGN Position Notation Start Position Length
3 2 bytes (ex. PGN 61454, SPN 3217)
3-4 2 bytes (ex. PGN 61450, SPN 132)
3,4 2 bytes (ex. PGN 64957, SPN 3085)
Data Definition b16 b15 b14 b13 b12 b11 b10 b9 b8 b7 b6 b5 b4 b3 b2 b1
MSb LSb
Transmission Order MSb LSb MSb LSb
8765432187654321
b8 b7 b6 b5 b4 b3 b2 b1 b16 b15 b14 b13 b12 b11 b10 b9
LSb MSb
Byte 3 Byte 4
FIGURE 10 - MULTIPLE BYTE PLACEMENT (NON-ALPHANUMERIC DATA) 
PGN Position Notation Start Position Length
1-4 4 bytes (ex. PGN 65199, SPN 1039)
01-04 4 bytes (ex. PGN 65211, SPN 994)
Data Definition b32 b31 b30 b29 b28 b27 b26 b25 b24 b23 b22 b21 b20 b19 b18 b17 b16 b15 b14 b13 b12 b11 b10 b9 b8 b7 b6 b5 b4 b3 b2 b1
MSb LSb
Transmission Order MSb LSb MSb LSb MSb LSb MSb LSb
87654321876543218765432187654321
b8 b7 b6 b5 b4 b3 b2 b1 b16 b15 b14 b13 b12 b11 b10 b9 b24 b23 b22 b21 b20 b19 b18 b17 b32 b31 b30 b29 b28 b27 b26 b25
LSb MSb
Byte 1 Byte 2 Byte 3 Byte 4
FIGURE 11 - MULTIPLE BYTE PLACEMENT (NON-ALPHANUMERIC DATA) 
PGN Position Notation Start Position Length
5-6 2 bytes (ex. PGN 61445, SPN 162 - ASCII)
Data Definition
c1b8 c1b7 c1b6 c1b5 c1b4 c1b3 c1b2 c1b1 c2b8 c2b7 c2b6 c2b5 c2b4 c2b3 c2b2 c2b1
MSb LSb MSb LSb
Transmission Order MSb LSb MSb LSb
8765432187654321
c1b8 c1b7 c1b6 c1b5 c1b4 c1b3 c1b2 c1b1 c2b8 c2b7 c2b6 c2b5 c2b4 c2b3 c2b2 c2b1
MSb LSb MSb LSb
ASCII Character 1 ASCII Character 2
Byte 5 Byte 6
FIGURE 12 - MULTIPLE BYTE PLACEMENT (ALPHANUMERIC DATA) 
5.4.8 Start Position Notation for Variable Length Parameters 
The information in Table 8 present 'start position' notations used with variable length parameters. Alphanumeric or textual 
data parameters are the primary examples of variable byte length parameters. The 'starting position' is typically denoted 
using letters and equations to explain the position of the content within the message data field.
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 22 -
TABLE 8 - START POSITION NOTATION FOR VARIABLE LENGTH PARAMETERS 
Start Position Length Interpretation 
R-'N' Variable – up to Y 
characters ("*" delimited) 
The parameter starts at byte 'R' and continues through some variable 
number of bytes where the end is denoted by an asterisk character in 
the data stream. The length of the parameter does not include the "*" 
delimiter.
Example (PGN 65242, SPN 234) 
Start Position Length 
 2-N Variable - up to 200 characters ("*" delimited) 
Parameter starts at byte 2 and continues up to the asterisk 
character (at byte 203 at the highest). 
R to 'N' 
'N'+1 to 'P' 
Variable – up to Y 
characters
Variable – up to Y 
characters
Equations define the starting position of two consecutive variable length 
parameters. The first parameter starts at byte 'R' and continues through 
some variable number of bytes. And the second parameter starts at the 
first byte last character of the first parameter and continues through 
some variable number of bytes. 
Example (PGN 64958, SPNs 3074 and 3075) 
Start Position Length 
 2 1 byte (Number of bytes in SPN 3074) 
 3 1 byte (Number of bytes in SPN 3075) 
 5 to A Variable - up to 100 characters (SPN 3074) 
 A+1 to B Variable - up to 100 characters (SPN 3075) 
First variable length parameter starts at byte 5 and continues 
through the number of bytes specified in Byte 2. The second 
variable length parameter starts at first byte after SPN 3074 
data and continues through the number of bytes specified in 
Byte 3. 
'n' Variable – up to Y 
characters ("*" delimited) 
Field position of a variable length data parameter. The parameter is the 
nth ordered field. The parameter occupies the first data byte following 
the previous parameter and continues some variable number of bytes 
where the end is denoted by an asterisk character in the data stream.
The length of the parameter does not include the "*" delimiter. 
Example (PGN 64965, SPN 2903) 
Start Position Length 
 c Variable - up to 200 characters ("*" delimited) 
Parameter is the 3rd field and continues up to the asterisk 
delimiter character (201 bytes beyond start of 3rd field at the 
highest). The starting byte number depends upon the length of 
the data before this field. 
5.4.9 Unspecified Bits in the PGN Data Field Definition 
Unspecified bits are the bits within the PGN data field byte length that are not assigned to a parameter or are not used by 
the data for the collection of parameters (SPNs) in the PGN. In the J1939 PGN definitions, the unspecified bits are 
typically not shown or explicitly identified in the PGN definition. 
The 'Data Length' property of the PGN definition specifies the minimum and maximum byte length of the data field for the 
PGN. The transmitted data field must be at least the minimum length specified by the 'Data Length' property for the PGN, 
and all unspecified bit within the transmitted data field must be filled with a value of one (1). This standard makes it 
possible to assign unspecified bits to parameters at some future time. 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 23 -
5.4.9.1 Unspecified Bits - Illustrated Example 
(R) An example of unspecified bits is provided in Figure 13 using an example PGN 12345. The top section of Figure 13 
shows the PGN Data Length and PGN content definition for the PGN. There are 36 Unspecified Bits in the PGN definition 
in this example. The unspecified bits are bit 5 to bit 8 of byte 2 (4 bits total) and all bits in byte 4 through byte 8 (32 bits 
total).
The PGN definition indicates SPN_1 is a 1 byte parameter with a data start position at byte 1. Since SPN_1 occupies all 
the bits in byte 1, there are no unspecified bits in byte 1. Next, the PGN definition indicates SPN_2 is a 4 bit parameter 
with a starting position of '2.1' which means the data for SPN_2 occupies bit 1 to bit 4 of byte 2. The next parameter in the 
PGN definition has a starting position in byte 3, which means bit 5 through bit 8 of byte 2 are Unspecified Bits. The third 
parameter in the PGN definition indicates SPN_3 is a 2 byte parameter with a data start position of '3- 4'. Since SPN_3 
occupies all the bits in bytes 3 and 4, there are no unspecified bits in byte 3 or byte 4. Finally, the PGN 'Data Length' 
property indicates the PGN has a message data field length of 8 bytes, but the PGN definition only lists parameter content 
through byte 4. All of the bits in byte 5 through byte 8 are Unspecified Bits. When transmitted, the message data field for 
this PGN must be 8 bytes in length, as specified by the PGN Data Length property. The 36 Unspecified Bits must be filled 
each with a one (1), and the other 28 bits for the data for SPNs SPN_1, SPN_2, and SPN_3 must be filled appropriately. 
FIGURE 13 - UNSPECIFIED BITS EXAMPLE 
6. NOTES 
 6.1 Marginal Indicia 
The (R) located in the left margin is for the convenience of the user in locating areas where technical revisions, not 
editorial changes, have been made to the previous issue of this document. An (R) symbol to the left of the document title 
indicates a complete revision of the document, including technical revisions. (R) is not used in original publications, nor in 
documents that contain editorial changes only. 
PREPARED BY THE SAE TRUCK AND BUS CONTROL AND COMMUNICATIONS NETWORK 
COMMITTEE OF THE SAE TRUCK AND BUS ELECTRICAL AND ELECTRONICS STEERING COMMITTEE 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 24 -
APPENDIX A 
SLOTS
SLOT Name SLOT Type Scaling Range Offset Length SLOT 
Identifier
 Diagnostic 202 
 SAEac01 Acceleration 1/2048 m/s² per 
bit
-15.687 to +15.687 m/s² -15.687 m/s² 2 bytes 115 
 SAEac02 Acceleration 0.1 m/s² per bit -12.5 to +12.5 m/s² -12.5 m/s² 1 byte 140 
 SAEac03 Acceleration 0.01 m/s² per 
bit
-320 to +322.55 m/s² -320 m/s² 2 bytes 303 
 SAEad01 Angle/Direction 10^-7 deg/bit -210 to 211.1008122 deg -210 deg 4 bytes 7 
 SAEad02 Angle/Direction 0.1 sec/bit -3276.8 to 3148.7 sec -3,276.8 sec 2 bytes 10 
 SAEad03 Angle/Direction 1/1024 rad per 
bit
-31.374 to +31.374 rad -31.374 rad 2 bytes 113 
 SAEad04 Angle/Direction 1/128 deg/bit -200 to 301.99 deg -200 deg 2 bytes 8 
 SAEad05 Angle/Direction 1/128 deg/bit 0 to 501.99 deg 0 2 bytes 9 
 SAEad06 Angle/Direction 1 deg/bit -125 to 125 deg -125 deg 1 byte 11 
 SAEad07 Angle/Direction 1/256 deg/bit -125 to 125 deg -125 deg 2 bytes 136 
 SAEad08 Angle/Direction 0.002 deg/bit -64 to 64.51 deg -64 2 bytes 242 
 SAEad09 Angle/Direction 0.1 deg/bit -12.5 to 12.5 deg -12.5 deg 1 byte 244 
 SAEad10 Angle/Direction 0.5 deg/bit -65 to 60 deg -65 deg 1 byte 248 
 SAEad11 Angle/Direction 1/32768 deg/bit -250 to 250.9999 deg -250 deg 3 bytes 294 
 SAEatad0005 ASCII, text (variable, "*" 
delimited) 
ASCII 0 to 255 per byte 0 Variable - 
up to 5 
bytes 
followed by 
an "*" 
delimiter 
109
 SAEatad0025 ASCII, text (variable, "*" 
delimited) 
ASCII 0 to 255 per byte 0 Variable - 
up to 25 
bytes 
followed by 
an "*" 
delimiter 
271
 SAEatad0032 ASCII, text (variable, "*" 
delimited) 
ASCII 0 to 255 per byte 0 Variable - 
up to 32 
bytes 
followed by 
an "*" 
delimiter 
291
 SAEatad0200 ASCII, text (variable, "*" 
delimited) 
ASCII 0 to 255 per byte 0 Variable - 
up to 200 
bytes 
followed by 
an "*" 
delimiter 
108
 SAEatad1728 ASCII, text (variable, "*" 
delimited) 
ASCII 0 to 255 per byte 0 Variable - 
up to 1728 
bytes 
followed by 
an "*" 
delimiter 
111
 SAEatf0001 ASCII, text (fixed length) ASCII 0 to 255 per byte 0 1 byte 94 
 SAEatf0002 ASCII, text (fixed length) ASCII 0 to 255 per byte 0 2 bytes 131 
 SAEatf0004 ASCII, text (fixed length) ASCII 0 to 255 per byte 0 4 bytes 212 
 SAEatf0005 ASCII, text (fixed length) ASCII 0 to 255 per byte 0 5 bytes 273 
 SAEatf0007 ASCII, text (fixed length) ASCII 0 to 255 per byte 0 7 bytes 110 
 SAEatf0016 ASCII, text (fixed length) ASCII 0 to 255 per byte 0 16 bytes 282 
 SAEatnd0200 ASCII, text (variable, NULL 
delimited) 
ASCII 0 to 255 per byte 0 Variable - 
up to 200 
bytes 
followed by 
an NULL 
delimiter 
258
 SAEatvn0100 ASCII, text (variable, nondelimited) 
ASCII 0 to 255 per byte 0 Variable - 
up to 100 
bytes 
228
 SAEba01 Brake Applications 1 brake appl/bit 0 to 4,227,858,431 appl 0 4 bytes 81 
 SAEbm05 Bit mapped 5 bit bitmapped
bit-mapped 0 5 bits 292 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 25 -
SLOT Name SLOT Type Scaling Range Offset Length SLOT 
Identifier
 SAEbm08 Bit mapped 8 bit bitmapped
bit-mapped 0 8 bits 275 
 SAEbm16 Bit mapped 16 bit bitmapped
bit-mapped 0 16 bits 276 
 SAEbm64 Bit mapped 64 bit bitmapped
bit-mapped 0 64 bits 278 
 SAEbs01 Bit Field 2 states/1 bit 0 to 1 0 1 bit 86 
 SAEbs02 Bit Field 4 states/2 bit 0 to 3 0 2 bits 87 
 SAEbs03 Bit Field 8 states/3 bit 0 to 7 0 3 bits 88 
 SAEbs04 Bit Field 16 states/4 bit 0 to 15 0 4 bits 89 
 SAEbs05 Bit Field 32 states/5 bit 0 to 31 0 5 bits 90 
 SAEbs06 Bit Field 64 states/6 bit 0 to 63 0 6 bits 91 
 SAEbs07 Bit Field 128 states/7 bit 0 to 127 0 7 bits 92 
 SAEbs08 Bit Field 256 states/8 bit 0 to 255 0 8 bits 93 
 SAEbs11 Bit Field 2047 
states/11bit
0 to 2047 0 11 bits 218 
 SAEbs12 Bit Field 4095 
states/12bit
0 to 4095 0 12 bits 281 
 SAEbs21 Bit Field 2097151 
states/21bit
0 to 2097151 0 21 bits 217 
 SAEbs24 Bit Field 16777215 
states/24bit
0 to 16777215 0 24 bits 280 
 SAEbs32 Bit Field 4294967296 
states/32bit
0 to 4294967296 0 32 bits 245 
(R) SAEby01 Number of bytes 1 byte/bit 0 to 250 bytes 0 1 byte 239 
 SAEca01 Capacity, Battery 1 mAhr/bit 0 to 64255mAhr (64.255Ahr) 0 2 bytes 211 
 SAEcb01 Control byte 1 count/bit 0 to 255 0 1 byte 120 
 SAEcd01 Calendar, days 0.25 days/bit 0 to 62.5 days 0 1 byte 60 
 SAEcm01 Calendar, months 1 month/bit 0 to 250 months 0 1 byte 62 
 SAEco01 Conductivity 5 
microSiemens/
mm
0 to 1250 
microSiemens/mm
0 1 byte 255 
 SAEct01 Count 1 turn/bit -32 to 29 turns -32 turns 6 bits 141 
 SAEct02 Count 1 count/bit 0 to 250 0 1 byte 129 
 SAEct03 Count 1 count/bit 0 to 255 0 1 byte 133 
 SAEct04 Count 1 count/bit 0 to 64,255 0 2 bytes 12 
 SAEct05 Count 1 count/bit 0 to 65,535 0 2 bytes 208 
 SAEct06 Count 1 count/bit 0 to 16,777,216 0 3 bytes 207 
 SAEct07 Count 1 count/bit 0 to 4,294,967,295 0 4 bytes 209 
 SAEct08 Count 1 count/bit 0 to 15 0 4 bits 220 
 SAEct09 Count 1 count/bit -125 to 125 -125 1 byte 230 
 SAEct10 Count 1 count/bit 0 to 31 0 5 bits 232 
 SAEct11 Count 1 count/bit 0 to 4095 0 12 bits 233 
 SAEct12 Count 1 count/bit 0 to 127 0 7 bits 260 
(R) SAEct13 Count 1 count/bit -32128 to 32127 -32128 2 bytes 306 
 SAEcw01 Calendar, weeks 1 week/bit -125 to 125 weeks -125 weeks 1 byte 65 
 SAEcy01 Calendar, years 1 year/bit 1985 to 2235 years 1985 years 1 byte 66 
 SAEcy02 Calendar, years 1 year/bit 2000 to 2061 years 2000 years 6 bits 284 
 SAEde01 Dielectricity 0.1/bit 0 to 25.0 0 1 byte 139 
 SAEde02 Dielectricity 1/8192 per bit 0 to 7.844 0 2 bytes 307 
 SAEdn01 Density 0.08 g/L per bit 0 to 20.0 g/L 0 1 byte 287 
 SAEdn02 Density 0.00003052 
g/cc per bit 
0 to 1.961 g/cc 0 2 bytes 302 
 SAEds02 Distance 100 mm/bit -209.7152 to 211.3929215 
m
-209.7152 m 4 bytes 142 
 SAEds03 Distance 0.1 mm/bit -3,200 to 3,225.5 mm -3,200 mm 2 bytes 13 
 SAEds04 Distance 0.1 mm/bit 0 to 6,425.5 mm (0 to 
6.4255 m) 
0 2 bytes 14 
 SAEds05 Distance 0.001 m/bit 0 to 4,211,081.215 m 0 4 bytes 126 
 SAEds06 Distance 0.125 m/bit -2500 to 5531.875 m -2500 m 2 bytes 39 
 SAEds07 Distance 1 m/bit 0 to 250 m 0 1 byte 95 
 SAEds08 Distance 1 m/bit -125 to 125 m -125 m 1 byte 15 
 SAEds09 Distance 5 m/bit 0 to 21,055,406 km 0 4 bytes 38 
 SAEds10 Distance 0.125 km/bit 0 to 526,385,151.9 km 0 4 bytes 36 
 SAEds11 Distance 5 km/bit -160,635 to 160,640 km -160,635 km 2 bytes 37 
 SAEds12 Distance 1 mm/bit 0 to 64,255 mm 0 2 bytes 231 
 SAEds13 Distance 10 mm/bit 0 to 2500 mm (0 to 2.500 m) 0 1 byte 234 
 SAEds14 Distance 1 mm/bit -32000 to 32255 mm (-
32.000 to 32.255 m) 
-32000 mm 2 bytes 235 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 26 -
SLOT Name SLOT Type Scaling Range Offset Length SLOT 
Identifier
 SAEds15 Distance 1 km/bit 0 to 64,255 km 0 2 bytes 270 
 SAEdv01 Dynamic viscosity 0.015625 Cp 
per bit 
0 to 1003.984375 Cp 0 2 bytes 301 
 SAEec01 Electrical Current 0.05 A/bit -1600 to 1612.75 A -1600 A 2 bytes 104 
 SAEec02 Electrical Current 1 A/bit -125 to 125 A -125 A 1 byte 40 
 SAEec03 Electrical Current 1 A/bit 0 to 250 A 0 1 byte 41 
 SAEec04 Electrical Current 1 A/bit 0 to 64,255 Amps 0 2 bytes 146 
 SAEec05 Electrical Current 0.05 A/bit 0 to 3212.75 A 0 2 bytes 250 
 SAEec06 Electrical Current 0.001 A/bit 0 to 64.255 A 0 2 bytes 143 
 SAEeg01 Economy, gaseous 1/512 km/kg 
per bit 
0 to 125.5 km/kg 0 2 bytes 17 
 SAEel01 Economy, liquid 1/512 km/L per 
bit
0 to 125.5 km/L 0 2 bytes 16 
 SAEen01 Energy 1 kWh/bit 0 to 4211081215 kWh 0 4 bytes 150 
 SAEer01 Energy, reactive 1 kVArh/bit 0 to 4211081215 kVArh 0 4 bytes 257 
 SAEev01 Electrical Voltage 0.05 V/bit 0 to 3212.75 V 0 2 bytes 80 
 SAEev02 Electrical Voltage 1 V/bit 0 to 64,255 Volts 0 2 bytes 145 
 SAEev03 Electrical Voltage 0.01 V/bit 0 to 642.55 Volts 0 2 bytes 221 
 SAEev04 Electrical Voltage 0.05 V/bit -1606.00 to 1606.75 V -1606.00 V 2 bytes 249 
 SAEev05 Electrical Voltage 1/128 V/bit 0 to 32,899,071 V 0 4 bytes 252 
 SAEfg01 Flow rate, gaseous 0.05 kg/h per 
bit
0 to 3212.75 kg/h 0 2 bytes 18 
 SAEfg02 Flow rate, gaseous 0.2 kg/h per bit 0 to 12851 kg/h per bit 0 2 bytes 262 
 SAEfl01 Flow rate, liquid 0.05 L/h per bit 0 to 3,212.75 L/h 0 2 bytes 42 
(R) SAEfl02 Flow rate, liquid 0.001 L/h per 
bit
0 to 4,211,081.215 L/h 0 4 bytes 321 
 SAEfm00 FMI Binary 0 to 31 0 5 bits 215 
 SAEfm01 Flow rate, mass 0.3 g/h per bit 0 to 19276.5 g/h 0 2 bytes 272 
(R) SAEfm02 Flow rate, mass 0.05 g/m per bit 0 to 3212.75 g/m 0 2 bytes 317 
 SAEfq01 Frequency 1/128 Hz/bit 0 to 501.9921875 Hz 0 2 bytes 144 
(R) SAEfq02 Frequency 0.1 MHz/bit 0 to 6425.5 MHz 0 2 bytes 320 
 SAEfr01 Force 5 N/bit 0 to 321,275 N 0 2 bytes 43 
 SAEfr02 Force 10 N/bit -320,000 to 322,550 N -320,000 N 2 bytes 127 
 SAEfr03 Force 1000 N/bit -100 kN to 150 kN -100 kN 1 byte 135 
 SAEfug01 Fuel Used, gaseous 0.5 kg/bit 0 to 2,105,540,607.5 kg 0 4 bytes 21 
 SAEful01 Fuel Used, liquid 0.5 L/bit 0 to 2,105,540,607.5 L 0 4 bytes 20 
 SAEful02 Fuel Used, liquid 0.001 L/bit 0 to 4,211,081.215 L 0 4 bytes 300 
 SAEfv01 Flow rate, volumetric 0.1 m^3/h per 
bit
0 to 6425.5 m^3/h 0 2 bytes 19 
 SAEgf01 Group Function 1 count/bit 0 to 255 0 1 byte 121 
 SAEgg01 Governor gain 1/1280 %/rpm 
per bit 
0 to 50.2 %/rpm 0 2 bytes 22 
 SAEgr01 Gear Ratio 0.01/bit 0 to 642.55 0 2 bytes 23 
 SAEgv01 Gear Value 1 gear value/bit -125 to 125 -125 1 byte 24 
 SAEgv02 Gear Value 1 gear value/bit 0 to 250 0 1 byte 101 
 SAEid01 Identifier,component/software 1 ID/bit 0 to 250 ID 0 1 byte 25 
 SAEie01 Inertia 0.004 kgm^2/bit 
0 to 257.02 kg-m^2 0 2 bytes 112 
 SAEio01 Intensity, optical 0.4 mW/cm^2 
per bit 
0 to 100 mW/cm^2 0 1 byte 204 
 SAEkv01 Kinematic viscosity 1 mm^2/s per 
bit
0 to 250 mm^2/s 0 1 byte 26 
 SAElg01 Lambda signal gain 0.5%/bar per bit 0 to 125%/bar 0 1 byte 297 
 SAEma01 Mass 4 g/bit 0 to 1000 g 0 1 byte 286 
(R) SAEmc01 Mass 0.5 kg/bit 0 to 32,127.5 kg 0 2 bytes 27 
(R) SAEmc02 Mass 2 kg/bit 0 to 128,510 kg 0 2 bytes 28 
(R) SAEmc03 Mass 10 kg/bit 0 to 642,550 kg 0 2 bytes 29 
(R) SAEmc04 Mass 0.10 kg/bit 0 to 6425.5 kg 0 2 bytes 226 
(R) SAEmc05 Mass 0.10 g/bit 0 to 6425.5 g 0 2 bytes 227 
(R) SAEmc06 Mass 2 kg/bit 0 to 32,899,070 kg 0 3 bytes 122 
(R) SAEmc07 Mass 2 kg/bit -16,449,535 to 16,449,535 
kg
-16,449,535 3 bytes 267 
 SAEmd01 Manufacturer defined 0 to 255 per 
byte 
manufacturer defined manufacturer 
defined
Variable 283 
 SAEnm01 Name (long) 1 count/bit 0 to (2^64 - 1) 0 8 bytes 159 
 SAEOC00 OC Binary 0 to 127 0 7 bits 216 
 SAEpa01 Power, Apparent 1 VA/bit -2,000,000,000 to 
+2,211,081,215 VA 
-2,000,000,000
VA
4 bytes 148 
 SAEpc01 Percent, position/level 0.0025 %/bit 0 to 160.6375 % 0 2 bytes 30 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 27 -
SLOT Name SLOT Type Scaling Range Offset Length SLOT 
Identifier
 SAEpc02 Percent, position/level 0.1 %/bit 0 to 102 % 0 10 bits 205 
 SAEpc03 Percent, position/level 0.4 %/bit 0 to 100 % 0 1 byte 44 
 SAEpc04 Percent, position/level 0.8 %/bit -100 to 100 % -100 % 1 byte 128 
 SAEpc05 Percent, position/level 1 %/bit -125 to 125 % -125 % 1 byte 45 
 SAEpc06 Percent, position/level 1 %/bit 0 to 250 % 0 1 byte 46 
 SAEpc07 Percent, position/level 0.1 %/bit -100 to 100 % -100 2 bytes 251 
 SAEpc08 Percent, position/level 0.0078125 
%/bit 
-251 to 250.99 % -251 2 bytes 256 
 SAEpc09 Percent, position/level 0.004%/bit -125 to 132.02% -125 2 bytes 264 
 SAEpc10 Percent, position/level 0.125%/bit 0 to 0.875% 0 4 bits 268 
 SAEpc15 Percent, concentration 0.25 %/bit 0 to 62.5 % 0 1 byte 254 
 SAEpc16 Percent, concentration 0.000514 %/bit -12% to 21% -12 % 2 bytes 237 
 SAEpc17 Percent, gain 0.1 %/bit -100 to 100 % -100 2 bytes 295 
 SAEpc18 Percent 0.5%/bit 0 to 125% 0 1 byte 299 
(R) SAEpc19 Percent, droop 0.04%/bit 0 to 10% 0 1 byte 308 
 SAEpd01 Proprietary Data Manufacturer 
Determined
Manufacturer Determined Manufacturer 
Determined
64 to 
14,280 bits 
154
 SAEpf01 Power Factor 1/16384 per bit -1.00000 to +2.921814 -1 2 bytes 151 
 SAEpg00 PGN Binary 0 to 16,777,215 0 3 bytes 116 
 SAEpp01 Parts Per Million 0.05 ppm/bit -200 to 3012.75 ppm -200 ppm 2 bytes 236 
 SAEpr01 Pressure 1/128 kPa/bit -250 kPa TO 251.99 kPa -250 kPa 2 bytes 52 
 SAEpr02 Pressure 0.05 kPa/bit 0 to 12.5 kPa 0 1 byte 48 
 SAEpr03 Pressure 0.1 kPa/bit 0 to 6,425.5 kPa 0 2 bytes 85 
 SAEpr04 Pressure 0.125 kPa/bit 0 to +8031.875 kPa (0 to 
1164.62 psi) 
0 2 bytes 138 
 SAEpr05 Pressure 0.5 kPa/bit 0 to 125 kPa 0 1 byte 54 
 SAEpr06 Pressure 0.5 kPa/bit 0 to 32,127.5 kPa 0 2 bytes 50 
 SAEpr07 Pressure 2 kPa/bit 0 to 500 kPa 0 1 byte 53 
 SAEpr08 Pressure 2 kPa/bit 0 to 128,510 kPa 0 2 bytes 106 
 SAEpr09 Pressure 1/256 MPa/bit 0 to 251 MPa 0 2 bytes 51 
 SAEpr10 Pressure 4 kPa/bit 0 to 1000 kPa 0 1 byte 47 
 SAEpr11 Pressure 5 kPa/bit 0 to 1,250 kPa 0 1 byte 1 
 SAEpr12 Pressure 5 kPa/bit 0 to 321,275 kPa 0 2 bytes 130 
 SAEpr13 Pressure 8 kPa/bit 0 to 2,000 kPa 0 1 byte 2 
 SAEpr14 Pressure 16 kPa/bit 0 to 4000 kPa 0 1 byte 49 
 SAEpr15 Pressure 100 kPa/bit 0 to 25 MPa 0 1 byte 161 
 SAEpr16 Pressure 50 kPa/bit 0 to 12,500 kPa 0 1 byte 229 
 SAEpr17 Pressure 1.64 kPa/bit -7 to 403 kPa -7 kPa 1 byte 246 
 SAEprc01 Pressure Rate Change 0.1 Pa/s per bit 0 Pa/s to 6425.5 Pa/s 0 2 bytes 162 
 SAEpt01 Power, Reactive 1 VAr/bit -2,000,000,000 to 
+2,211,081,215 VAr 
-2,000,000,000
Var
4 bytes 149 
 SAEpw01 Power, Real 1 W/bit -2,000,000,000 to 
+2,211,081,215 Watts 
-2,000,000,000
Watts
4 bytes 147 
 SAEpw02 Power, Real 2 W/bit 0 to 128,510 W 0 2 bytes 107 
 SAEpw03 Power, Real 0.5 kW/bit 0 to 32,127.5 kW 0 2 bytes 55 
(R) SAEpw04 Power, Real 0.5 W/bit 0 to 32127.5 W 0 W 2 bytes 305 
 SAEr01 Ratio 0.001/bit 0 to 64.255 0 2 bytes 32 
 SAEr02 Ratio 0.1/bit 0 to 25.0 0 1 byte 31 
 SAEr03 Ratio 1/bit 0 to 250 0 1 byte 56 
(R) SAEr04 Ratio 1/8192 per bit -3.92 to +3.92 -3.92 2 bytes 318 
 SAEra01 Range 1 range/bit -32 to 29 ranges -32 ranges 6 bits 263 
 SAErc01 Road Curvature 1/128 1/km per 
bit
-250 to 251.992 1/km -250 1/km 2 bytes 96 
 SAErc02 Road Curvature 1/128 deg per 
bit
-90 to 90 deg -90 deg 2 bytes 261 
 SAEre01 Record 1 record/bit 0 to 250 records 0 1 byte 33 
 SAErs01 Resistance 0.1 ohm/bit 0 to 6425.5 ohm 0 2 bytes 290 
 SAErv01 Revolutions 1000 r/bit 0 to 4,211,081,215,000 r 0 4 bytes 34 
 SAEsa01 Source Address 1 source 
address/bit
0 to 255 0 1 byte 35 
 SAEse01 Selection 1 selection/bit 0 to 255 0 1 byte 259 
 SAEsg01 Specific Gravity 0.0001/bit 0 to 6.4255 0 2 bytes 82 
 SAEsg02 Signal gain 0.5%/bar per bit 0 to 125%/bar 0 1 byte 298 
 SAEsh01 Specific Humidity 0.01 g/kg per 
bit
0 to 642.55 g/kg 0 2 bytes 285 
 SAESP00 SPN Binary 0 to 524,287 0 19 bits 214 
 SAEsr01 Specific Resistance 0.1 Mohm*m/bit 0 to 25 Mohm*m 0 1 byte 83 
 SAEst01 Step 1 step/bit 0 to 250 steps 0 1 byte 84 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 28 -
SLOT Name SLOT Type Scaling Range Offset Length SLOT 
Identifier
 SAEtc01 Trouble code 1 trouble 
code/bit
0 to 250 0 1 byte 274 
 SAEtd01 Transfer Data Request 
Dependent
9 to 1777 bytes of data Request 
Dependent
72 to 
14,216 bits 
155
 SAEtd02 Transport Data Request 
Dependent
9 to 1784 bytes of data Request 
Dependent
72 to 
14,272 bits 
158
 SAEtd03 Test data Not defined Not defined Not defined 2 bytes 277 
 SAEtm01 Time 0.01 ms/bit 0 to 642.55 ms 0 2 bytes 57 
 SAEtm02 Time 1 ms/bit 0 to 64.255 s 0 2 bytes 132 
 SAEtm03 Time 0.1 s/bit 0 to 25 s 0 1 byte 59 
 SAEtm04 Time 0.25 s/bit 0 to 62.5 s 0 1 byte 63 
 SAEtm05 Time 1 s/bit 0 to 64,255 s 0 2 bytes 64 
 SAEtm06 Time 1 s/bit 0 to 4,211,081,215 s 0 4 bytes 6 
 SAEtm07 Time 1 min/bit -125 to 125 mins -125 min 1 byte 99 
 SAEtm08 Time 1 min/bit 0 to 250 mins 0 1 byte 61 
 SAEtm09 Time 0.05 hr/bit 0 to 210,554,060.75 hr 0 4 bytes 58 
 SAEtm10 Time 1 hr/bit -125 to 125 hr -125 hr 1 byte 4 
 SAEtm11 Time 1 hr/bit 0 to 250 hr 0 1 byte 3 
 SAEtm12 Time 1 hr/bit -32,127 to 32,128 hr -32,127 hr 2 bytes 5 
 SAEtm13 Time 51.2 us/bit 0 to 3.289856 s 0 2 bytes 206 
 SAEtm14 Time 0.1 hr/bit 0 to 6,425.5 hours 0 2 bytes 224 
 SAEtm15 Time 1 min/bit 0 to 64,255 mins 0 2 bytes 238 
 SAEtm16 Time 0.5 ms/bit 0 to 125 ms 0 1 byte 241 
 SAEtm17 Time 1 ms/bit 0 to 250 ms 0 1 byte 247 
(R) SAEtm18 Time 0.1 us/bit 0 to 6425.5 us 0 2 bytes 319 
 SAEtp01 Temperature 1 deg C/bit -40 to 210 deg C -40 deg C 1 byte 67 
 SAEtp02 Temperature 0.03125 deg 
C/bit
-273 to 1734.96875 deg C -273 deg C 2 bytes 68 
 SAEtq01 Torque 1 Nm/bit -32,000 to 32,255 Nm -32,000 Nm 2 bytes 69 
 SAEtq02 Torque 1 Nm/bit 0 to 64,255 Nm 0 2 bytes 70 
 SAEtq03 Torque 2 Nm/bit 0 to 128,510 Nm 0 2 bytes 98 
 SAEtq04 Torque 30 Nm/bit 0 to 7500 Nm 0 1 byte 137 
 SAEva01 Velocity, angular 1/8192 rad/s 
per bit 
-3.92 to +3.92 rad/s -3.92 rad/s 2 bytes 114 
 SAEva02 Velocity, angular 0.002 deg/sec 
per bit 
-64 to 64.51 deg/sec -64 deg/sec 2 bytes 243 
 SAEva03 Velocity, angular 1/128 deg/sec 
per bit 
-250 to 250.992 deg/sec -250 deg/sec 2 bytes 288 
 SAEvd01 VariantData Variant 
Determined
Variant Determined Variant 
Determined
4 bytes 134 
 SAEvl01 Velocity, linear 0.001 m/s per 
bit
0 to 64.255 m/s 0 2 bytes 125 
 SAEvl02 Velocity, linear 1/256 km/h per 
bit
0 to 250.996 km/h 0 2 bytes 71 
 SAEvl03 Velocity, linear 1/128 km/h per 
bit
-250 to 251.992 km/h -250 km/h 2 bytes 72 
 SAEvl04 Velocity, linear 1/16 km/h per 
bit
-7.8125 to 7.8125 km/h -7.8125 km/h 1 byte 74 
 SAEvl05 Velocity, linear 1 km/h per bit 0 to 250 km/h 0 1 byte 73 
 SAEvm01 Velocity, magnitude 2 m/h per bit 0 to 128510 m/h 0 2 bytes 219 
 SAEvm1 Volume 0.5 L/bit 0 to 2,105,540,607.5 L 0 4 bytes 75 
 SAEvm2 Volume 0.5 L/bit 0 to 32127.5 liters 0 2 bytes 222 
 SAEvm3 Volume 0.5 L/bit -62.5 to 62.5 L -62.5 L 1 bytes 225 
 SAEvr01 Velocity, rotational 0.125 rpm/bit 0 to 8,031.875 rpm 0 2 bytes 76 
 SAEvr02 Velocity, rotational 0.5 rpm/bit 0 to 32,127.5 rpm 0 2 bytes 78 
 SAEvr03 Velocity, rotational 4 rpm/bit 0 to 257,020 rpm 0 2 bytes 77 
 SAEvr04 Velocity, rotational 10 rpm/bit 0 to 2,500 rpm 0 1 byte 79 
 SAEvr05 Velocity, rotational 32 rpm/bit 0 to 8,000 rpm 0 1 byte 97 
 SAEvr06 Velocity, rotational 1 rpm/bit 0 to 64255 rpm 0 2 bytes 223 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 29 -
APPENDIX B 
SPNs
SPN 16 Engine Fuel Filter (Suction Side) Differential Pressure (see also SPN 1382) 
Differential pressure measured across the fuel filter located between the fuel tank and the supply pump. See Figures 
SPN16_A & SPN16_B. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 2 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 500 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 16 
PGN reference: 
SPN 21 Engine ECU Temperature (use SPN 1136) 
Temperature of the engine electronic control unit. 
(21, 1207 are not to be used - obsolete) 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 
SPN 22 Engine Extended Crankcase Blow-by Pressure 
Differential crankcase blow-by pressure as measured through a tube with a venturi.
(1264 not to be used – obsolete) 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.05 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 12.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65263 
SPN 27 Engine Exhaust Gas Recirculation 1 Valve Position 
The position of the exhaust gas recirculation valve expressed as a percentage of full travel. Zero percent means the valve 
is closed and no exhaust gas is flowing into the intake air stream. One hundred percent means the valve is fully opened. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.0025 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 160.6375 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 27 
PGN reference: 64916 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 30 -
SPN 29 Accelerator Pedal Position 2 
The ratio of actual position of the second analog engine speed/torque request input device (such as an accelerator pedal 
or throttle lever) to the maximum position of the input device. This parameter is intended for secondary accelerator 
control in an application. If an application has only one accelerator control, use SPN 91.
In marine applications, this will typically be the operator’s second throttle lever. 
If a low idle validation switch is used in conjunction with accelerator pedal position 2, use Accelerator Pedal Low Idle 
Switch 2, SPN 2970. 
NOTE—See SPNs 91 and 974 for additional accelerator position parameters. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61443 
SPN 38 Fuel Level 2 
Ratio of volume of fuel to the total volume of fuel in the second or right-side storage container. When Fuel Level 2 is not 
used, Fuel Level 1 (SPN 96) represents the total fuel in all fuel storage containers. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65276 
SPN 39 Tire Pressure Check Interval 
The interval at which the system will check the tire pressures (e.g., 5, 10, 15 min.). 
NOTE - A value of 0 indicates continuous (real time) pressure readings. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 min/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 mins Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65144 
SPN 46 Pneumatic Supply Pressure 
The pneumatic pressure in the main reservoir, sometimes referred to as the wet tank. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 8 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 2,000 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65198 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 31 -
SPN 51 Engine Throttle Valve 1 Position 
The position of the valve used to regulate the supply of a fluid, usually air or fuel/air mixture, to an engine. 0% represents
no supply and 100% is full supply. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65266 
SPN 52 Engine Intercooler Temperature 
Temperature of liquid found in the intercooler located after the turbocharger. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 deg C/bit, -40 deg C offset 
Data Range: -40 to 210 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65262 
SPN 53 Transmission Synchronizer Clutch Value 
The current modulated value for the air supply to the synchronizer clutch. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65221 
SPN 54 Transmission Synchronizer Brake Value 
The current modulated value for the air supply to the synchronizer brake. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65221 
SPN 59 Transmission Shift Finger Gear Position 
The current position of the shift finger in the gear direction. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65223 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 32 -
SPN 60 Transmission Shift Finger Rail Position 
The current position of the shift finger in the rail direction. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65223 
SPN 69 Two Speed Axle Switch 
Switch signal which indicates the current axle range. 
00 - Low speed range 
01 - High speed range 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65265 
SPN 70 Parking Brake Switch 
Switch signal which indicates when the parking brake is set. In general the switch actuated by the operator's park brake 
control, whether a pedal, lever or other control mechanism (see also SPN 619 and 5275). 
00 - Parking brake not set 
01 - Parking brake set 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 5275 
PGN reference: 65265 
SPN 72 Engine Blower Bypass Valve Position 
Relative position of the blower bypass valve. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65277 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 33 -
SPN 73 Auxiliary Pump Pressure 
Gage pressure of auxiliary water pump driven as a PTO device. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 16 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 4000 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65278 
SPN 74 Maximum Vehicle Speed Limit 
Maximum vehicle velocity allowed. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 km/h per bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 km/h Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65261 
SPN 75 Steering Axle Temperature 
Temperature of lubricant in steering axle. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 deg C/bit, -40 deg C offset 
Data Range: -40 to 210 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65273 
SPN 79 Road Surface Temperature 
Indicated temperature of road surface over which vehicle is operating. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65269 
SPN 80 Washer Fluid Level 
Ratio of volume of liquid to total container volume of fluid reservoir in windshield wash system. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65276 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 34 -
SPN 81 Engine Diesel Particulate Filter Intake Pressure 
Exhaust back pressure as a result of particle accumulation on filter media placed in the exhaust stream. See SPN 3609 
for better resolution. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.5 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 125 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65270 
SPN 82 Engine Air Start Pressure 
Gage pressure of air in an engine starting system that utilizes compressed air to provide the force required to rotate the 
crankshaft. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 4 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 1000 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65246 
SPN 84 Wheel-Based Vehicle Speed 
Speed of the vehicle as calculated from wheel or tailshaft speed. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1/256 km/h per bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250.996 km/h Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65265 
SPN 86 Cruise Control Set Speed 
Value of set (chosen) velocity of velocity control system. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 km/h per bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 km/h Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65265 
SPN 87 Cruise Control High Set Limit Speed 
Maximum vehicle velocity at which cruise can be set. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 km/h per bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 km/h Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65261 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 35 -
SPN 88 Cruise Control Low Set Limit Speed 
Minimum vehicle velocity at which cruise can be set or minimum vehicle velocity for cruise operation before it will exit 
cruise control operation. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 km/h per bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 km/h Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65261 
SPN 90 Power Takeoff Oil Temperature 
Temperature of lubricant in device used to transmit engine power to auxiliary equipment. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 deg C/bit, -40 deg C offset 
Data Range: -40 to 210 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65264 
SPN 91 Accelerator Pedal Position 1 
The ratio of actual position of the analog engine speed/torque request input device (such as an accelerator pedal or 
throttle lever) to the maximum position of the input device. This parameter is intended for the primary accelerator control 
in an application. If an application has only one accelerator control, use SPN 91.
For on-highway vehicles, this will typically be the operator’s accelerator pedal. Although it is used as an input to 
determine powertrain demand, it also provides anticipatory information to transmission and ASR algorithms about driver 
actions.
In marine applications, this will typically be the operator’s throttle lever. 
If a low idle validation switch is used in conjunction with accelerator pedal position 1, use Accelerator Pedal Low Idle 
Switch 1, SPN 558. 
NOTE—See SPNs 29 and 974 for additional accelerator position parameters. SPN 28 is an additional diagnostic SPN for 
accelerator position. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61443 
SPN 92 Engine Percent Load At Current Speed 
The ratio of actual engine percent torque (indicated) to maximum indicated torque available at the current engine speed, 
clipped to zero torque during engine braking. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 % Operational Range: 0 to 125% 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61443 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 36 -
(R) SPN 94 Engine Fuel Delivery Pressure 
Gage pressure of fuel in system as delivered from supply pump to the injection pump. See also SPN 5578 for Fuel 
Delivery Absolute Pressure. 
See Figures SPN16_A & SPN16_B. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 4 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 1000 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65263 
SPN 95 Engine Fuel Filter Differential Pressure 
Change in fuel delivery pressure, measured across the filter, due to accumulation of solid or semisolid matter on the filter 
element. See Figures SPN16_A & SPN16_B. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 2 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 500 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65276 
SPN 96 Fuel Level 1 
Ratio of volume of fuel to the total volume of fuel storage container. 
When Fuel Level 2 (SPN 38) is not used, Fuel Level 1 represents the total fuel in all fuel storage containers. When Fuel 
Level 2 is used, Fuel Level 1 represents the fuel level in the primary or left-side fuel storage container. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65276 
SPN 97 Water In Fuel Indicator 
Signal which indicates the presence of water in the fuel. 
00 - No 
01 - Yes 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65279 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 37 -
SPN 98 Engine Oil Level 
Ratio of current volume of engine sump oil to maximum required volume. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65263 
SPN 99 Engine Oil Filter Differential Pressure 
Change in engine oil pressure, measured across the filter, due to the filter and any accumulation of solid or semisolid 
material on or in the filter. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.5 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 125 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65276 
SPN 100 Engine Oil Pressure 
Gage pressure of oil in engine lubrication system as provided by oil pump. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 4 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 1000 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65263 
SPN 101 Engine Crankcase Pressure 
Gage pressure inside engine crankcase. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1/128 kPa/bit, -250 kPa offset 
Data Range: -250 kPa TO 251.99 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65263 
SPN 102 Engine Intake Manifold #1 Pressure 
The gage pressure measurement of the air intake manifold. If there are multiple air pressure sensors in the intake stream, 
this is the last one in flow direction before entering the combustion chamber. This should be the pressure used to drive 
gauges and displays. See also SPNs 1127-1130 and SPN 3562 for alternate range and resolution. If there is only one 
pressure measurement of the air intake manifold to report and this range and resolution is adequate, this parameter 
should be used. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 2 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 500 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65270 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 38 -
SPN 103 Engine Turbocharger 1 Speed 
Rotational velocity of rotor in the turbocharger. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 4 rpm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 257,020 rpm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65245 
SPN 104 Engine Turbocharger Lube Oil Pressure 1 
Gage pressure of oil in turbocharger lubrication system. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 4 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 1000 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65245 
SPN 105 Engine Intake Manifold 1 Temperature 
Temperature of pre-combustion air found in intake manifold of engine air supply system. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 deg C/bit, -40 deg C offset 
Data Range: -40 to 210 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65270 
SPN 106 Engine Air Intake Pressure 
Absolute air pressure at input port to intake manifold or air box. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 2 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 500 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65270 
SPN 107 Engine Air Filter 1 Differential Pressure 
Change in engine air system pressure, measured across the filter, due to the filter and any accumulation of solid foreign 
matter on or in the filter. 
This is the measurement of the first filter in a multiple air filter system. In a single air filter application, this is the only SPN 
used. Filter numbering follows the guidelines noted in section, Naming Convention For Engine Parameters. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.05 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 12.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65270 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 39 -
SPN 108 Barometric Pressure 
Absolute air pressure of the atmosphere. See Figures SPN16_A & SPN16_B. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.5 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 125 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65269 
SPN 109 Engine Coolant Pressure 
Gage pressure of liquid found in engine cooling system. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 2 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 500 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65263 
SPN 110 Engine Coolant Temperature 
Temperature of liquid found in engine cooling system. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 deg C/bit, -40 deg C offset 
Data Range: -40 to 210 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65262 
SPN 111 Engine Coolant Level 
Ratio of volume of liquid found in engine cooling system to total cooling system volume. Typical monitoring location is in 
the coolant expansion tank. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65263 
SPN 112 Engine Coolant Filter Differential Pressure 
Change in coolant pressure, measured across the filter, due to the filter and any accumulation of solid or semisolid matter 
on or in the filter. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.5 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 125 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65270 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 40 -
SPN 114 Net Battery Current 
Net flow of electrical current into/out of the battery or batteries. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 A/bit, -125 A offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 A Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65271 
SPN 115 Alternator Current 
Measure of electrical current flow from the alternator. Alternator Current (High Range/Resolution) parameter SPN 1795 
has a higher range and resolution of the same parameter. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 A/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 A Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65271 
SPN 116 Brake Application Pressure 
Gage pressure of compressed air or fluid in vehicle braking system measured at the brake chamber when brake shoe (or 
pad) is placed against brake drum (or disc). 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 4 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 1000 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65274 
SPN 117 Brake Primary Pressure 
Gage pressure of air in the primary, or supply side, of the air brake system. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 4 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 1000 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65274 
SPN 118 Brake Secondary Pressure 
Gage pressure of air in the secondary, or service side, of the air brake system. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 4 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 1000 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65274 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 41 -
SPN 119 Hydraulic Retarder Pressure 
Gage pressure of oil in hydraulic retarder system. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 16 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 4000 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65275 
SPN 120 Hydraulic Retarder Oil Temperature 
Temperature of oil found in a hydraulic retarder. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 deg C/bit, -40 deg C offset 
Data Range: -40 to 210 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65275 
SPN 123 Clutch Pressure 
Gage pressure of oil within a wet clutch. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 16 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 4000 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65272 
SPN 124 Transmission Oil Level 
Ratio of volume of transmission sump oil to recommended volume. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65272 
SPN 126 Transmission Filter Differential Pressure 
Change in transmission fluid pressure, measured after the filter, due to accumulation of solid or semisolid material on or in 
the filter. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 2 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 500 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65272 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 42 -
SPN 127 Transmission Oil Pressure 
Gage pressure of lubrication fluid in transmission, measured after pump. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 16 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 4000 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65272 
SPN 129 Engine Injector Metering Rail 2 Pressure (duplicate, use SPN 1349) 
The gage pressure of fuel in the metering rail #2 as delivered from the supply pump to the injector metering intake. See 
Figure SPN16_A for fuel system related parameters. Although the figure does not show rail #2 it does show the 
relationship of rail pressure to other signals. 
(Obsolete - use SPN 1349) 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1/256 MPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 251 MPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 
SPN 132 Engine Intake Air Mass Flow Rate 
Mass flow rate of fresh air entering the engine air intake, before any EGR mixer, if used. Flow rate of fresh air conducted 
to the engine cylinders to support combustion. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.05 kg/h per bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3212.75 kg/h Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61450 
SPN 136 Auxiliary Vacuum Pressure Reading 
Identifies the current vacuum pressure (relative to atmosphere) that is configured uniquely per application. Not to be used 
in place of defined parameters. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.5 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 32,127.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65143 
SPN 137 Auxiliary Gage Pressure Reading 1 
Identifies the current gage pressure (relative to atmosphere) that is configured uniquely per application. Not to be used in 
place of defined parameters. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.5 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 32,127.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65143 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 43 -
SPN 138 Auxiliary Absolute Pressure Reading 
Identifies the current absolute pressure (relative to 0 pressure) that is configured uniquely per application. Not to be used 
in place of defined parameters. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.5 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 32,127.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65143 
SPN 141 Trailer, Tag Or Push Channel Tire Pressure Target 
The tire pressure control system’s target gage pressure for the trailer, tag, or push group of tires. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.5 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 32,127.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65145 
SPN 142 Drive Channel Tire Pressure Target 
The tire pressure control system’s target gage pressure for the drive group of tires. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.5 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 32,127.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65145 
SPN 143 Steer Channel Tire Pressure Target 
The tire pressure control system’s target gage pressure for the steer group of tires. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.5 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 32,127.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65145 
SPN 144 Trailer, Tag Or Push Channel Tire Pressure 
The latest gage pressure reading of the trailer, tag, or push group of tires, as opposed to the pressure in each tire. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.5 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 32,127.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65146 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 44 -
SPN 145 Drive Channel Tire Pressure 
The latest gage pressure reading of the drive group of tires, as opposed to the pressure in each tire. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.5 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 32,127.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65146 
SPN 146 Steer Channel Tire Pressure 
The latest gage pressure reading of the steer group of tires, as opposed to the pressure in each tire. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.5 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 32,127.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65146 
SPN 156 Engine Injector Timing Rail 1 Pressure 
The gage pressure of fuel in the timing rail delivered from the supply pump to the injector timing intake. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1/256 MPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 251 MPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 16 
PGN reference: 65243 
SPN 157 Engine Injector Metering Rail 1 Pressure 
The gage pressure of fuel in the primary, or first, metering rail as delivered from the supply pump to the injector metering 
intake. See Figure SPN16_A. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1/256 MPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 251 MPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65243 
SPN 158 Keyswitch Battery Potential 
Battery potential measured at the input of the electronic control unit supplied through a keyswitch or similar switching 
device.
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.05 V/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3212.75 V Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65271 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 45 -
SPN 159 Engine Gas Supply Pressure 
Gage pressure of gas supply to fuel metering device. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.5 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 32,127.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65277 
SPN 160 Main Shaft Speed 
Rotational velocity of the first intermediate shaft of the transmission. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.125 rpm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 8,031.875 rpm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 
SPN 161 Transmission Input Shaft Speed 
Rotational velocity of the primary shaft transferring power into the transmission. When a torque converter is present, it is 
the output of the torque converter. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.125 rpm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 8,031.875 rpm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 5052 
PGN reference: 61442 
SPN 162 Transmission Requested Range 
Range selected by the operator. Characters may include P, Rx, Rx-1...R2, R1, R, Nx, Nx-1...N2, N1, N, D, D1, D2..., Dx, 
L, L1, L2..., Lx-1, 1, 2, 3,... If only one displayed character is required, the second character shall be used and the first 
character shall be a space (ASCII 32) or a control character (ASCII 0 to 31). If the first character is a control character, 
refer to the manufacturer’s application document for definition. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: ASCII, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 255 per byte Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61445 
SPN 163 Transmission Current Range 
Range currently being commanded by the transmission control system. Characters may include P, Rx, Rx-1...R2, R1, R, 
Nx, Nx-1...N2, N1, N, D, D1, D2..., Dx, L, L1, L2..., Lx-1, 1, 2, 3,... If only one displayed character is required, the second
character shall be used and the first character shall be a space (ASCII 32) or a control character (ASCII 0 to 31). If the 
first character is a control character, refer to the manufacturer’s application document for definition. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: ASCII, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 255 per byte Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61445 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 46 -
SPN 164 Engine Injection Control Pressure 
The gage pressure of the engine oil in the hydraulic accumulator that powers an intensifier used for fuel injection. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1/256 MPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 251 MPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65243 
SPN 165 Compass Bearing 
Present compass bearing of vehicle. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1/128 deg/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 501.99 deg Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65256 
SPN 166 Engine Rated Power 
Net brake power that the engine will deliver continuously, specified for a given application at a rated speed. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.5 kW/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 32,127.5 kW Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65214 
SPN 167 Charging System Potential (Voltage) 
Electrical potential measured at the charging system output. The charging system may be any device charging the 
batteries. This includes alternators, generators, solid state charger and other charging devices. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.05 V/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3212.75 V Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65271 
SPN 168 Battery Potential / Power Input 1 
This parameter measures the first source of battery potential as measured at the input of the ECM/actuator etc. coming 
from one or more batteries, irrespective of the distance between the component and the battery. This SPN is also used 
when ECM's are interconnected in a series configuration, where the source of power is coming directly or indirectly from 
the same battery/batteries. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.05 V/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3212.75 V Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 65104 
PGN reference: 65271 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 47 -
SPN 169 Cargo Ambient Temperature 
Temperature of air inside vehicle container used to accommodate cargo. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65276 
SPN 170 Cab Interior Temperature 
Temperature of air inside the part of the vehicle that encloses the driver and vehicle operating controls. 
Note: See also SPN 1691. SPN 1662 is an additional diagnostic SPN associated with cab temperature. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65269 
SPN 171 Ambient Air Temperature 
Temperature of air surrounding vehicle. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65269 
SPN 172 Engine Air Intake Temperature 
Temperature of air entering vehicle air induction system. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 deg C/bit, -40 deg C offset 
Data Range: -40 to 210 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65269 
SPN 173 Engine Exhaust Gas Temperature 
Temperature of combustion byproducts leaving the engine. See SPNs 2433 and 2434 for engines with more than one 
exhaust gas temperature measurement. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65270 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 48 -
SPN 174 Engine Fuel Temperature 1 
Temperature of fuel (or gas) passing through the first fuel control system. See SPN 3468 for the second control system 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 deg C/bit, -40 deg C offset 
Data Range: -40 to 210 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65262 
SPN 175 Engine Oil Temperature 1 
Temperature of the engine lubricant. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65262 
SPN 176 Engine Turbocharger Oil Temperature 
Temperature of the turbocharger lubricant. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65262 
SPN 177 Transmission Oil Temperature 
Temperature of the transmission lubricant. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65272 
SPN 180 Trailer Weight 
Total mass of freight-carrying vehicle designed to be pulled by truck, including the weight of the contents. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 2 kg/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 128,510 kg Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65258 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 49 -
SPN 181 Cargo Weight 
The mass of freight carried. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 2 kg/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 128,510 kg Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65258 
SPN 182 Engine Trip Fuel 
Fuel consumed during all or part of a journey. See SPN 5053 for alternate resolution. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 0.5 L/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 2,105,540,607.5 L Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65257 
(R) SPN 183 Engine Fuel Rate 
Amount of fuel consumed by engine per unit of time. 
NOTE - See SPN 1600 for alternate resolution. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.05 L/h per bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3,212.75 L/h Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65266 
SPN 184 Engine Instantaneous Fuel Economy 
Current fuel economy at current vehicle velocity. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1/512 km/L per bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 125.5 km/L Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65266 
SPN 185 Engine Average Fuel Economy 
Average of instantaneous fuel economy for that segment of vehicle operation of interest. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1/512 km/L per bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 125.5 km/L Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65266 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 50 -
SPN 186 Power Takeoff Speed 
Rotational velocity of device used to transmit engine power to auxiliary equipment. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.125 rpm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 8,031.875 rpm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65264 
SPN 187 Power Takeoff Set Speed 
Rotational velocity selected by operator for device used to transmit engine power to auxiliary equipment. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.125 rpm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 8,031.875 rpm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65264 
SPN 188 Engine Speed At Idle, Point 1 (Engine Configuration) 
Stationary low idle speed of engine which includes influences due to engine temperature (after power up) and other 
stationary changes (calibration offsets, sensor failures, etc). This parameter is point 1 of the engine configuration map 
(see PGN 65251). 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.125 rpm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 8,031.875 rpm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65251 
SPN 189 Engine Rated Speed 
The maximum governed rotational velocity of the engine crankshaft under full load conditions. Note that the engine 
speed at point 2 (SPN 528) is equal to rated engine speed only in the case when the engine has not been derated.
Please also reference PGN 65251. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.125 rpm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 8,031.875 rpm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65214 
SPN 190 Engine Speed 
Actual engine speed which is calculated over a minimum crankshaft angle of 720 degrees divided by the number of 
cylinders.
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.125 rpm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 8,031.875 rpm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61444 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 51 -
SPN 191 Transmission Output Shaft Speed 
Calculated speed of the transmission output shaft. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.125 rpm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 8,031.875 rpm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61442 
SPN 233 Unit Number (Power Unit) 
Owner assigned unit number for the power unit of the vehicle. 
NOTE: The ASCII character "*" is reserved as a delimiter. 
Data Length: Variable - up to 200 bytes followed by an "*" delimiter 
Resolution: ASCII, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 255 per byte Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65259 
SPN 234 Software Identification 
Software identification of an electronic module. As an example, this parameter may be represented with ASCII characters 
MMDDYYaa where MM is the month, DD is the day, YY is the year, and aa is the revision number. 
NOTE The ASCII character “*” is reserved as a delimiter. 
Data Length: Variable - up to 200 bytes followed by an "*" delimiter 
Resolution: ASCII, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 255 per byte Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65242 
SPN 235 Engine Total Idle Hours 
Accumulated time of operation of the engine while under idle conditions. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 0.05 hr/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 210,554,060.75 hr Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65244 
SPN 236 Engine Total Idle Fuel Used 
Accumulated amount of fuel used during vehicle operation while under idle conditions. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 0.5 L/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 2,105,540,607.5 L Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65244 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 52 -
SPN 237 Vehicle Identification Number 
Vehicle Identification Number (VIN) as assigned by the vehicle manufacturer. 
NOTE The ASCII character “*” is reserved as a delimiter. 
Data Length: Variable - up to 200 bytes followed by an "*" delimiter 
Resolution: ASCII, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 255 per byte Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65260 
SPN 241 Tire Pressure 
Pressure at which air is contained in cavity formed by tire and rim. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 4 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 1000 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65268 
SPN 242 Tire Temperature 
Temperature at the surface of the tire sidewall. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65268 
SPN 244 Trip Distance 
Distance traveled during all or part of a journey. 
NOTE See SPN 918 for alternate resolution. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 0.125 km/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 526,385,151.9 km Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65248 
SPN 245 Total Vehicle Distance 
Accumulated distance traveled by vehicle during its operation. 
NOTE See SPN 917 for alternate resolution. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 0.125 km/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 526,385,151.9 km Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65248 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 53 -
SPN 246 Total Vehicle Hours 
Accumulated time of operation of vehicle. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 0.05 hr/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 210,554,060.75 hr Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65255 
SPN 247 Engine Total Hours of Operation 
Accumulated time of operation of engine. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 0.05 hr/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 210,554,060.75 hr Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65253 
SPN 248 Total Power Takeoff Hours 
Accumulated time of operation of power takeoff device. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 0.05 hr/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 210,554,060.75 hr Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65255 
SPN 249 Engine Total Revolutions 
Accumulated number of revolutions of engine crankshaft during its operation. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 1000 r/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 4,211,081,215,000 r Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65253 
SPN 250 Engine Total Fuel Used 
Accumulated amount of fuel used during vehicle operation. See SPN 5054 for alternate resolution. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 0.5 L/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 2,105,540,607.5 L Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65257 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 54 -
SPN 354 Relative Humidity 
Measures humidity of combustion air prior to entry into turbocharger 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65164 
SPN 407 Axle Group Full Weight Calibration 
The full weight calibration measurement of an axle group 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 2 kg/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 128,510 kg Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64873 
SPN 408 Axle Group Empty Weight Calibration 
The empty weight calibration measurement of an axle group 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 2 kg/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 128,510 kg Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64873 
SPN 409 Axle Group Weight 
Total mass imposed on the road surface by all the tires in the axle group 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 2 kg/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 128,510 kg Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64874 
SPN 411 Engine Exhaust Gas Recirculation 1 Differential Pressure 
Differential pressure across the Exhaust Gas Recirculation (EGR) system 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1/128 kPa/bit, -250 kPa offset 
Data Range: -250 kPa TO 251.99 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 27 
PGN reference: 65188 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 55 -
SPN 412 Engine Exhaust Gas Recirculation 1 Temperature 
Temperature of Recirculated Exhaust Gas. This should not be used for Exhaust Gas Recirculation Mixer Intake 
Temperature. See SPN 5020. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 27 
PGN reference: 65188 
SPN 413 Net Vehicle Weight Change 
Identifies the net vehicle weight change from the time of last vehicle net weight zeroing. 
Data Length: 3 bytes 
Resolution: 2 kg/bit, -16,449,535 offset 
Data Range: -16,449,535 to 16,449,535 kg Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64872 
SPN 417 Gross Combination Weight 
Total weight of the truck and all the trailers with on-board scales. 
Data Length: 3 bytes 
Resolution: 2 kg/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 32,899,070 kg Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64872 
SPN 441 Auxiliary Temperature 1 
Temperature measured by auxiliary temperature sensor #1. Not to be used in place of existing SPNs. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 deg C/bit, -40 deg C offset 
Data Range: -40 to 210 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65164 
SPN 442 Auxiliary Temperature 2 
Temperature measured by auxiliary temperature sensor #2. Not to be used in place of existing SPNs. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 deg C/bit, -40 deg C offset 
Data Range: -40 to 210 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65164 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 56 -
SPN 444 Battery Potential / Power Input 2 
This parameter measures the second source of battery potential as measured at the input of the ECM/actuator etc. 
coming from one or more batteries, irrespective of the distance between the component and the battery. This SPN is also 
used when ECM's are interconnected in a series configuration, where the source of power is coming directly or indirectly 
from the same battery/batteries. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.05 V/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3212.75 V Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 65104 
PGN reference: 65165 
SPN 509 Milepost Identification 
Used to identify the milepost as detected by a milepost sensor. The length of the ASCII text for this parameter must be 
reported using SPN 3070 (Number of bytes in the Milepost Identification). 
Data Length: Variable - up to 100 bytes 
Resolution: ASCII, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 255 per byte Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64959 
SPN 512 Driver's Demand Engine - Percent Torque 
The requested torque output of the engine by the driver. It is based on input from the following requestors external to the 
powertrain: operator (via the accelerator pedal), cruise control and/or road speed limit governor. Dynamic commands from 
internal powertrain functions such as smoke control, low- and high-speed engine governing; ASR and shift control are 
excluded from this calculation. The data is transmitted in indicated torque as a percent of the reference engine torque. 
See PGN 65251 for the engine configuration message. Several status bits are defined separately to indicate the request 
which is currently being honored. This parameter may be used for shift scheduling. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, -125 % offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 % Operational Range: 0 to 125% 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 512 
PGN reference: 61444 
SPN 513 Actual Engine - Percent Torque 
The calculated output torque of the engine. The data is transmitted in indicated torque as a percent of reference engine 
torque (see the engine configuration message, PGN 65251). The engine percent torque value will not be less than zero 
and it includes the torque developed in the cylinders required to overcome friction. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, -125 % offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 % Operational Range: 0 to 125% 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61444 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 57 -
SPN 514 Nominal Friction - Percent Torque 
The calculated torque that indicates the amount of torque required by the basic engine itself added by the loss torque of 
accessories. It contains the frictional and thermodynamic loss of the engine itself, pumping torque loss (SPN 5398), and 
the losses of fuel, oil and cooling pumps. The data is transmitted in indicated torque as a percent of reference engine 
torque (see the engine configuration message, PGN 65251). 
The realization can be done by a map dependent on engine speed and engine temperature and an offset value for 
additional loss torques. 
See SPN 2978 for an indicator that describes the possible inclusion of engine parasitic losses such as cooling fan, etc. in 
this parameter value. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, -125 % offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65247 
SPN 515 Engine's Desired Operating Speed 
An indication by the engine of the optimal operating speed of the engine for the current existing conditions. These 
conditions may include the torque generated to accommodate powertrain demands from the operator (via the accelerator 
pedal), cruise control, road speed limit governors, or ASR. Dynamic commands from functions such as smoke control or 
shift control are excluded from this calculation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.125 rpm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 8,031.875 rpm Operational Range: (upper byte resolution = 32 rpm/bit) 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65247 
SPN 517 Navigation-Based Vehicle Speed 
Speed of the vehicle as calculated from a device such as a Global Positioning System (GPS). 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1/256 km/h per bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250.996 km/h Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65256 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 58 -
SPN 518 Engine Requested Torque/Torque Limit 
Parameter provided to the engine or retarder in the torque/speed control message for controlling or limiting the output 
torque.
Requested torque to the engine is measured in indicated torque as a percentage of reference engine torque (see the 
engine configuration message, PGN 65251). This is the engine torque at which the engine is expected to operate if the 
torque control mode is active or the engine torque which the engine is not expected to exceed if the torque limit mode is 
active. 
Zero torque can be requested which implies zero fuel and, according to Figures SPN512_A and SPN512_B, the engine 
will not be allowed to stall. The actual engine percent torque (SPN 513) should be zero and the engine should decelerate 
until the low idle governor kicks in, at which time the actual engine percent torque will be calculated as shown in Figures 
SPN512_A and SPN512_B and the engine torque mode bits (SPN 899) should be equal to 0000b - Low Idle Governor. 
Requested torque to the retarder is measured in indicated torque as a percentage of reference retarder torque (see the 
retarder configuration message, PGN 65249). The logic used in enabling or disabling the retarder is based on the 
override control mode priority bits (SPN 897). 
A zero torque request to the retarder is a disable request, and is used by a J1939 node to prevent the retarder from being 
activated by other combinations of inputs outside of J1939 commands. The Torque Limit Mode is commonly used for this 
purpose.
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, -125 % offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 % Operational Range: 0 to 125% engine torque requests, -
125% to 0% for retarder torque 
requests
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 518 
PGN reference: 0 
SPN 519 Engine's Desired Operating Speed Asymmetry Adjustment 
This byte is utilized in transmission gear selection routines and indicates the engine's preference of lower versus higher 
engine speeds should its desired speed not be achievable. This is a scaled ratio such that 125 represents an equal 
preference for a speed lower or higher that the engine's indicated desired speed. The higher the asymmetry adjustment 
value is above 125, the more the engine prefers to be operated at or above its indicated desired speed. Conversely, the 
lower the asymmetry adjustment value is below 125, the more the engine prefers to operate at or below its indicated 
desired speed. Typically, the engine's asymmetry adjustment will be predicated on fuel consumption considerations, and 
under these conditions, the method for computing the asymmetry adjustment is indicated in Figure SPN519_A. The 
engine may include other factors into its asymmetry adjustment calculation such as temperatures, pressures, and other 
operating parameters. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 519 
PGN reference: 65247 
SPN 520 Actual Retarder - Percent Torque 
Actual braking torque of the retarder as a percent of retarder configuration reference torque SPN 556. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, -125 % offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 % Operational Range: -125% to 0 % 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61440 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 59 -
SPN 521 Brake Pedal Position 
Ratio of brake pedal position to maximum pedal position. Used for electric brake applications. 0% means no braking. 
Also when there are two brake pedals on the machine (Left Brake Pedal Position SPN 3033 and Right Brake Pedal 
Position SPN 3032) the maximum of the two should be transmitted for Brake Pedal Position. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61441 
SPN 522 Percent Clutch Slip 
Parameter which represents the ratio of input shaft speed to current engine speed (in percent). 
Percent Clutch Slip = ((Engine rpm - Input shaft rpm)/(Engine rpm)) x 100 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61442 
SPN 523 Transmission Current Gear 
The gear currently engaged in the transmission or the last gear engaged while the transmission is in the process of 
shifting to the new or selected gear. Transitions toward a destination gear will not be indicated. Once the selected gear 
has been engaged then Transmission Current Gear (SPN 525) will reflect that gear. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 gear value/bit, -125 offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 Operational Range: -125 to +125, negative values are 
reverse gears, positive values are 
forward gears, zero is neutral. 251 
(0xFB) is park. 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61445 
SPN 524 Transmission Selected Gear 
The gear that the transmission will attempt to achieve during the current shift if a shift is in progress, or the next shift if one 
is pending (i.e., waiting for torque reduction to initiate the shift). 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 gear value/bit, -125 offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 Operational Range: -125 to +125, negative values are 
reverse gears, positive values are 
forward gears, zero is neutral. 251 
(0xFB) is park. 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61445 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 60 -
SPN 525 Transmission Requested Gear 
Gear requested by the operator, ABS, or engine. 
Negative values are reverse gears, positive values are forward gears, zero is neutral, parameter specific indicators are 
listed below. 
Parameter specific values for this parameter are as follows: 
0xFD (253 dec) = Hold current gear 
0xFC (252 dec) = Forward Drive Position 
0xFB (251 dec) = ‘Park’ position 
0xFA (250 dec) = Forward ‘Low’ position 
0xF9 (249 dec) = Upshift 1 gear from current position 
0xF8 (248 dec) = Upshift 2 gears from current position 
0xF7 (247 dec) = Downshift 1 gear from current position 
0xF6 (246 dec) = Downshift 2 gears from current position 
0xF5 (245 dec) = D-1: 1st forward selector position referenced from ‘Drive’ 
0xF4 (244 dec) = D-2: 2nd forward selector position referenced from ‘Drive’ 
0xF3 (243 dec) = D-3: 3rd forward selector position referenced from ‘Drive’ 
0xF2 (242 dec) = D-4: 4th forward selector position referenced from ‘Drive’ 
0xF1 (241 dec) = D-5: 5th forward selector position referenced from ‘Drive’ 
0xF0 (240 dec) = D-6: 6th forward selector position referenced from ‘Drive’ 
0xEF (239 dec) = D-7: 7th forward selector position referenced from ‘Drive’ 
0xEE (238 dec) = Between two shift selector positions (if detail is unknown) 
0xED (237 dec) = Between two reverse shift selector positions 
0xEC (236 dec) = Between two forward shift selector positions 
0xEB (235 dec) = Between D-7 and D-6 shift selector positions 
0xEA (234 dec) = Between D-6 and D-5 shift selector positions 
0xE9 (233 dec) = Between D-5 and D-4 shift selector positions 
0xE8 (232 dec) = Between D-4 and D-3 shift selector positions 
0xE7 (231 dec) = Between D-3 and D-2 shift selector positions 
0xE6 (230 dec) = Between D-2 and D-1 shift selector positions 
0xE5 (229 dec) = Between D-1 and ‘Drive’ shift selector positions 
0xE4 (228 dec) = Between ‘Drive’ and ‘Neutral’ shift selector positions 
0xE3 (227 dec) = Between ‘Neutral’ and ‘Reverse’ shift selector positions 
0xE2 (226 dec) = Between ‘Reverse’ and ‘Park’ shift selector positions 
0xE1 (225 dec) = Press of momentary button to reselect current position 
0xE0 (224 dec) = Position unknown and/or no buttons pressed 
0xDF (223 dec) = Reverse Selector Position 
0xDE - 0xBE (222 dec - 190 dec) = Reserved 
0x3C - 0x00 (60 dec - 0 dec) = Reserved 
Forward selector position from drive (0xF5 to 0xEF) – Indicates shift selector position in reference to the ‘Drive’ position 
on the selector. It is possible that the shift selector software may not know the number of forward ranges. The shift 
selector may identify the position selected by the operator while the transmission ECU determines what range or gear that 
represents. If there is a digital display, the transmission ECU would communicate what is to be displayed via another 
message such as ETC#2 or ETC#7. 
For example: Consider a vehicle with a 5-speed automatic transmission with the shift lever on the column. Suppose that 
shift selector has a limited number of positions, such that having positions for D-4-3-2-1 is not an option. For this example, 
assume there are only have enough lever positions for D-3-2-1. Pulling the lever into "D" will put the transmission in 5th 
(highest gear). It is desired that pulling the lever to the physical “3” position will limit the transmission to a maximum range
of 3rd gear. 
When the selector is pulled down into "3", the shifter selector itself has no way of correlating this physical lever position to
the desired gear; it would have to be calibrated with software to tell it this information. If not calibrated, the shift selector
cannot directly command the transmission to go to 3rd gear; it only knows it's one notch below drive. 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 61 -
However, if "D-1" (lever position, as opposed to desired gear) is broadcast by the selector, the transmission ECU can 
receive this and then make the determination of what range is desired. The benefit is that no specific calibration of the 
shift selector is required.
Between selector positions (0xEE to 0xE2) – Indicates the shift selector is not in an appropriate position. If a lever-type 
shift selector with a mechanical display is stuck between detents, it may appear to the operator that it is in the desired 
position when in fact it is not. The shift selector may be capable of reporting only that it is between positions or that it is
between forward or reverse positions. If known, the transmission ECU may respond differently depending on which 
positions are involved. 
Reselect current position (0xE1) - If the TC1 message continues to send the position last selected, then a capability to 
reselect the same position is required. For example: If a ‘Neutral to Drive’ shift is selected and that shift is inhibited (say
for high engine speed), it may be necessary for the operator to reselect ‘Drive’ after the inhibit conditions pass in order for
the transmission ECU to honor the request. 
Position unknown and/or no buttons pressed (0xE0) - A push-button style shift selector with momentary contact buttons 
may send this indicator after initialization before any buttons are pressed, or before the transmission ECU determines and 
communicates the initial selection. This indicator could also be sent between button presses as an alternative to sending 
the last button press. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 gear value/bit, -125 offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 Operational Range: -64 to 64 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 256 
SPN 526 Transmission Actual Gear Ratio 
Actual ratio of input shaft speed to output shaft speed. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.001/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 64.255 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61445 
SPN 527 Cruise Control States 
This parameter is used to indicate the current state, or mode, of operation by the cruise control device. This is a status 
parameter.
000 - Off/Disabled 
001 - Hold 
010 - Accelerate 
011 - Decelerate 
100 - Resume 
101 - Set 
110 - Accelerator Override 
111 - Not available 
Data Length: 3 bits 
Resolution: 8 states/3 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 7 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 527 
PGN reference: 65265 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 62 -
SPN 528 Engine Speed At Point 2 (Engine Configuration) 
Engine speed of point 2 of the engine torque map (see PGN 65251 and supporting document). In engine configuration 
mode 1 and 3, point 2 is defined as the kick-in point from which torque is reduced to zero. In mode 2 (see Table 
PGN65251_A), there are no special requirements for the definition of this point. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.125 rpm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 8,031.875 rpm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65251 
SPN 529 Engine Speed At Point 3 (Engine Configuration) 
Engine speed of point 3, 4, and 5 of the engine torque map (see PGN 65251 and supporting document). It is 
recommended that one of these points indicate the peak torque point for the current engine torque map. Points 3, 4, and 
5 are optional and lie between idle and point 2. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.125 rpm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 8,031.875 rpm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65251 
SPN 530 Engine Speed At Point 4 (Engine Configuration) 
Engine speed of point 3, 4, and 5 of the engine torque map (see PGN 65251 and supporting document). It is 
recommended that one of these points indicate the peak torque point for the current engine torque map. Points 3, 4, and 
5 are optional and lie between idle and point 2. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.125 rpm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 8,031.875 rpm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65251 
SPN 531 Engine Speed At Point 5 (Engine Configuration) 
Engine speed of point 3, 4, and 5 of the engine torque map (see PGN 65251 and supporting document). It is 
recommended that one of these points indicate the peak torque point for the current engine torque map. Points 3, 4, and 
5 are optional and lie between idle and point 2. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.125 rpm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 8,031.875 rpm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65251 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 63 -
SPN 532 Engine Speed At High Idle, Point 6 (Engine Configuration) 
Engine speed of high idle (point 6) of the engine torque map (see PGN 65251 and supporting document). In engine 
configuration mode 3 (see Figure PGN65251_C), point 6 is not defined by the engine torque map but by the governor 
characteristic and the zero torque line. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.125 rpm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 8,031.875 rpm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65251 
SPN 533 Engine Maximum Momentary Override Speed, Point 7 (Engine Configuration) 
The maximum engine speed above high idle allowed by the engine control during a momentary high idle override. This 
duration of the override is limited by the maximum momentary override time limit, SPN 534. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.125 rpm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 8,031.875 rpm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65251 
SPN 534 Engine Maximum Momentary Override Time Limit (Engine Configuration) 
The maximum time limit allowed to override the engine's high idle speed. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.1 s/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 25 s Operational Range: 0 to 25 sec, 0 = no override of high idle 
allowed, 255 = not applicable (no time 
restriction)
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65251 
SPN 535 Engine Requested Speed Control Range Lower Limit (Engine Configuration) 
The minimum engine speed that the engine will allow when operating in a speed control/limit mode. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 10 rpm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 2,500 rpm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65251 
SPN 536 Engine Requested Speed Control Range Upper Limit (Engine Configuration) 
The maximum engine speed regardless of load that the engine will allow when operating in a speed control/limit mode, 
excluding any maximum momentary engine override speed, if supported. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 10 rpm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 2,500 rpm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65251 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 64 -
SPN 537 Engine Requested Torque Control Range Lower Limit (Engine Configuration) 
The minimum engine torque that the engine will allow when operating in a torque control/limit mode. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, -125 % offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 % Operational Range: 0 to 125% 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65251 
SPN 538 Engine Requested Torque Control Range Upper Limit (Engine Configuration) 
The maximum engine torque that the engine will allow when operating in a torque control/limit mode. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, -125 % offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 % Operational Range: 0 to 125% 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65251 
SPN 539 Engine Percent Torque At Idle, Point 1 (Engine Configuration) 
The torque limit that indicates the available engine torque which can be provided by the engine at idle speed. This 
parameter may be influenced by engine temperature (after power up) and other stationary changes (calibration offsets, 
sensor failures, etc.) See also SPN 188. The data is transmitted in indicated torque as a percent of the reference engine 
torque.
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, -125 % offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 % Operational Range: 0 to 125% 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65251 
SPN 540 Engine Percent Torque At Point 2 (Engine Configuration) 
The torque limit that indicates the available engine torque which can be provided by the engine at point 2 of the engine 
map (see PGN 65251 and supporting documents). In engine configuration mode 1 and 3 (see Table PGN65251_A see 
PGN 65251), point 2 is defined as the kick-in point from which torque is reduced to zero. In mode 2, there are no special 
requirements for the definition of this point. The data is transmitted in indicated torque as a percent of the reference 
engine torque. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, -125 % offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 % Operational Range: 0 to 125% 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65251 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 65 -
SPN 541 Engine Percent Torque At Point 3 (Engine Configuration) 
The torque limit that indicates the available engine torque which can be provided by the engine at point 3, 4, and 5 of the 
engine map (see PGN 65251 and supporting documents).. It is required that one of these points indicate the peak torque 
point for the current engine torque map. Points 3, 4, and 5 lie between idle and point 2. The data is transmitted in 
indicated torque as a percent of the reference engine torque. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, -125 % offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 % Operational Range: 0 to 125% 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65251 
SPN 542 Engine Percent Torque At Point 4 (Engine Configuration) 
The torque limit that indicates the available engine torque which can be provided by the engine at point 3, 4, and 5 of the 
engine map (see PGN 65251 and supporting documents). It is required that one of these points indicate the peak torque 
point for the current engine torque map. Points 3, 4, and 5 lie between idle and point 2. The data is transmitted in 
indicated torque as a percent of the reference engine torque. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, -125 % offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 % Operational Range: 0 to 125% 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65251 
SPN 543 Engine Percent Torque At Point 5 (Engine Configuration) 
The torque limit that indicates the available engine torque which can be provided by the engine at point 3, 4, and 5 of the 
engine map (see PGN 65251 and supporting documents). It is required that one of these points indicate the peak torque 
point for the current engine torque map. Points 3, 4, and 5 lie between idle and point 2. The data is transmitted in 
indicated torque as a percent of the reference engine torque. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, -125 % offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 % Operational Range: 0 to 125% 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65251 
SPN 544 Engine Reference Torque (Engine Configuration) 
This parameter is the 100% reference value for all defined indicated engine torque parameters. It is only defined once 
and doesn't change if a different engine torque map becomes valid. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1 Nm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 64,255 Nm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65251 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 66 -
SPN 545 Engine Gain (Kp) Of The Endspeed Governor (Engine Configuration) 
The endspeed governor is defined as a linear line with the following equations (Capital letters mean physical values, small 
letters mean normalized values). Refer to Figures PGN65251_A and PGN65251_B. 
The gain KP/kp is defined as a positive value. The factor 4096 is necessary for realizing flat curves with sufficient 
resolution as well as very steep curves. 
KP = delta Torque / delta Speed 
kp (normalized) = KP * 250/100% * 8031 rpm/64255 * 4096 = KP * 1280 rpm/% 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1/1280 %/rpm per bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 50.2 %/rpm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65251 
SPN 546 Retarder Speed At Idle, Point 1 (Retarder Configuration) 
Please reference PGN 65249 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.125 rpm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 8,031.875 rpm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65249 
SPN 547 Retarder Speed At Peak Torque, Point 5 (Retarder Configuration) 
Please reference PGN 65249 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.125 rpm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 8,031.875 rpm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65249 
SPN 548 Maximum Retarder Speed, Point 2 (Retarder Configuration) 
Maximum speed of retarder (Please reference PGN 65249). 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.125 rpm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 8,031.875 rpm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65249 
SPN 549 Retarder Speed At Point 3 (Retarder Configuration) 
Retarder speed of point 3 of the engine retarder torque map. Please reference PGN 65249. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.125 rpm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 8,031.875 rpm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65249 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 67 -
SPN 550 Retarder Speed At Point 4 (Retarder Configuration) 
Retarder speed of point 4 of the engine retarder torque map. Please reference PGN 65249. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.125 rpm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 8,031.875 rpm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65249 
SPN 551 Percent Torque At Idle, Point 1 (Retarder Configuration) 
The torque limit that indicates the available retarder torque which can be provided by the retarder at idle speed. The data 
is transmitted in indicated torque as a percent of the reference retarder torque. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, -125 % offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 % Operational Range: -125 to 0% 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65249 
SPN 552 Percent Torque At Maximum Speed, Point 2 (Retarder Configuration) 
The torque limit that indicates the available retarder torque which can be provided by the retarder at its maximum speed.
Please reference PGN 65249. The data is transmitted in indicated torque as a percent of the reference retarder torque. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, -125 % offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 % Operational Range: -125 to 0% 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65249 
SPN 553 Percent Torque At Point 3 (Retarder Configuration) 
The torque limit that indicates the available retarder torque which can be provided by the retarder at points 3 and 4 of the 
retarder torque map. Please reference PGN 65249. The data is transmitted in indicated torque as a percent of the 
reference retarder torque. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, -125 % offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 % Operational Range: -125 to 0% 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65249 
SPN 554 Percent Torque At Point 4 (Retarder Configuration) 
The torque limit that indicates the available retarder torque which can be provided by the retarder at points 3 and 4 of the 
retarder torque map. Please reference PGN 65249. The data is transmitted in indicated torque as a percent of the 
reference retarder torque. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, -125 % offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 % Operational Range: -125 to 0% 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65249 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 68 -
SPN 555 Percent Torque At Peak Torque, Point 5 (Retarder Configuration) 
The torque limit that indicates the available retarder torque which can be provided by the retarder at point 5 of the retarder 
torque map. Please reference PGN 65249. The data is transmitted in indicated torque as a percent of the reference 
retarder torque. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, -125 % offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 % Operational Range: -125 to 0% 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65249 
SPN 556 Reference Retarder Torque (Retarder Configuration) 
This parameter is the 100% reference value for all defined indicated retarder torque parameters. It is only defined once 
and doesn't change if a different retarder torque map becomes valid. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1 Nm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 64,255 Nm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65249 
SPN 557 Retarder Control Method (Retarder Configuration) 
This parameter identifies the number of steps used by the retarder. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 step/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 steps Operational Range: 0: continuous control,1 On/Off control, 
2 to 250: Number of steps 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65249 
SPN 558 Accelerator Pedal 1 Low Idle Switch 
Switch signal which indicates the state of the accelerator pedal 1 low idle switch. The low idle switch is defined in SAE 
Recommended Practice J1843. 
00 - Accelerator pedal 1 not in low idle condition 
01 - Accelerator pedal 1 in low idle condition 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61443 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 69 -
SPN 559 Accelerator Pedal Kickdown Switch 
Switch signal which indicates whether the accelerator pedal kickdown switch is opened or closed. The kickdown switch is 
defined in SAE J1843. 
00 - Kickdown passive 
01 - Kickdown active 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61443 
SPN 560 Transmission Driveline Engaged 
Driveline engaged indicates the transmission controlled portion of the driveline is engaged sufficiently to allow a transfer 
of torque through the transmission. Driveline engaged is ACTIVE whenever the transmission is in gear and the clutch (if 
controlled by the transmission controller) is less than 100% clutch slip (clutch able to transfer torque). This parameter 
should be used in conjunction with the parameter “Shift in Process” (SPN 574). While a shift is in process, the receiver 
should not assume that the driveline is either fully engaged or disengaged (i.e., cruise control). 
00 - Driveline disengaged 
01 - Driveline engaged 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61442 
SPN 561 ASR Engine Control Active 
State signal which indicates that ASR engine control has been commanded to be active. Active means that ASR actually 
tries to control the engine. This state signal is independent of other control commands to the engine (e.g., from the 
transmission) which may have higher priority. 
00 - ASR engine control passive but installed 
01 - ASR engine control active 
10 - Reserved 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61441 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 70 -
SPN 562 ASR Brake Control Active 
State signal which indicates that ASR brake control is active. Active means that ASR actually controls wheel brake 
pressure at one or more wheels of the driven axle(s). 
00 - ASR brake control passive but installed 
01 - ASR brake control active 
10 - Reserved 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61441 
SPN 563 Anti-Lock Braking (ABS) Active 
State signal which indicates that the ABS is active. The signal is set active when wheel brake pressure actually starts to 
be modulated by ABS and is reset to passive when all wheels are in a stable condition for a certain time. The signal can 
also be set active when driven wheels are in high slip (e.g., caused by retarder). Whenever the ABS system is not fully 
operational (due to a defect or during off-road ABS operation) , this signal is only valid for that part of the system that is 
still working. When ABS is switched off completely, the flag is set to passive regardless of the current wheel slip 
conditions.
00 - ABS passive but installed 
01 - ABS active 
10 - Reserved 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61441 
SPN 564 Differential Lock State - Central 
State used which indicates the condition of the central differential lock. The differential locks are located as defined in 
attached figure SPN564_A. 
00 Differential lock disengaged 
01 Differential lock engaged 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 564 
PGN reference: 61446 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 71 -
SPN 565 Differential Lock State - Central Front 
State used which indicates the condition of the central front differential lock. The differential locks are located as defined
in figure SPN564_A. 
00 Differential lock disengaged 
01 Differential lock engaged 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61446 
SPN 566 Differential Lock State - Central Rear 
State used which indicates the condition of the central rear differential lock. The differential locks are located as defined 
in figure SPN564_A. 
00 Differential lock disengaged 
01 Differential lock engaged 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61446 
SPN 567 Differential Lock State - Front Axle 1 
State used which indicates the condition of the front axle 1 differential lock. The differential locks are located as defined 
in figure SPN564_A. 
00 Differential lock disengaged 
01 Differential lock engaged 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61446 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 72 -
SPN 568 Differential Lock State - Front Axle 2 
State used which indicates the condition of the front axle 2 differential lock. The differential locks are located as defined in
figure SPN 564_A. 
00 Differential lock disengaged 
01 Differential lock engaged 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61446 
SPN 569 Differential Lock State - Rear Axle 1 
State used which indicates the condition of the rear axle 1 differential lock. The differential locks are located as defined in
figure SPN 564_A. 
00 Differential lock disengaged 
01 Differential lock engaged 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61446 
SPN 570 Differential Lock State - Rear Axle 2 
State used which indicates the condition of the rear axle 2 differential lock. The differential locks are located as defined in
figure SPN 564_A. 
00 Differential lock disengaged 
01 Differential lock engaged 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61446 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 73 -
SPN 571 Retarder Enable - Brake Assist Switch 
Switch signal which indicates whether the operator wishes the retarder to be enabled for vehicle braking assist. The 
retarder does not check this switch, nor does the enabling of this switch engage the retarder. When this switch is 
“enabled,” the devices constructing TSC1 – destination retarder messages may command retarder torque for braking. For 
example, the cruise control should not request retarder torque if this switch is not “enabled.” The switch exists to prevent 
the engine retarder from being asked to be engaged via TSC1 in a noise sensitive area. See also SPN 572 
00 Retarder - brake assist disabled 
01 Retarder - brake assist enabled 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61440 
SPN 572 Retarder Enable - Shift Assist Switch 
Switch signal which indicates whether the operator wishes the retarder to be enabled for transmission shift assist. The 
retarder does not check this switch, nor does the enabling of this switch engage the retarder. When this switch is 
“enabled,” the transmission may activate the retarder (via the TSC1 message) to increase the rate of engine deceleration 
to assist in shift control. The switch exists to prevent the engine retarder from being asked to be engaged via TSC1 in a 
noise sensitive area. See SPN 571. 
00 Retarder - shift assist disabled 
01 Retarder - shift assist enabled 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61440 
SPN 573 Transmission Torque Converter Lockup Engaged 
State signal which indicates whether the torque converter lockup is engaged. 
00 Torque converter lockup disengaged 
01 Torque converter lockup engaged 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61442 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 74 -
SPN 574 Transmission Shift In Process 
Indicates that the transmission is in process of shifting from the current gear to the selected gear. This state is generally 
ACTIVE during the entire time that the transmission controls the vehicle. This includes any transmission clutch control, all 
engine control sequences, pulling to transmission neutral, and engaging the destination gear (e.g., until it is no longer 
sending commands and/or limits to the engine). See also SPN 560. (See Figure SPN574_A) 
00 - Shift is not in process
01 - Shift in process 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 574 
PGN reference: 61442 
SPN 575 ABS Off-road Switch 
Switch signal which indicates the position of the ABS off-road switch. 
00 - ABS off-road switch passive 
01 - ABS off-road switch active 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61441 
SPN 576 ASR Off-road Switch 
Switch signal which indicates the position of the ASR off-road switch. 
00 - ASR off-road switch passive 
01 - ASR off-road switch active 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61441 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 75 -
SPN 577 ASR "Hill Holder" Switch 
Switch signal which indicates the position of the ASR “hill holder” switch. 
00 - ASR “hill holder” switch passive 
01 - ASR “hill holder” switch active 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61441 
SPN 578 Drive Axle Temperature 
Temperature of axle lubricant in drive axle. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 deg C/bit, -40 deg C offset 
Data Range: -40 to 210 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65273 
SPN 579 Drive Axle Lift Air Pressure 
Gage pressure of air in system that utilizes compressed air to provide force between axle and frame. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 4 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 1000 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65273 
SPN 580 Altitude 
Altitude of the vehicle referenced to sea level at standard atmospheric pressure and temperature. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.125 m/bit, -2500 m offset 
Data Range: -2500 to 5531.875 m Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65256 
SPN 581 Transmission Gear Ratio 
The transmission configuration describes the number of forward gears, the number of reverse gears, and the ratio of each 
gear with the following resolution. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.001/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 64.255 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65250 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 76 -
SPN 582 Axle Weight 
Total mass imposed by the tires on the road surface at the specified axle. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.5 kg/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 32,127.5 kg Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65258 
(R) SPN 583 Pitch 
Pitch (rotation about the y-axis) of the vehicle as calculated by the navigation device(s). The pitch angle for an angle of 
ascent is reported with a positive value. This parameter is defined according to a Z-Down axis system and the sign of the 
value is in accordance to the right-hand rule, as specified in SAE J670. As specified in SAE J670, a Z-Down Axis System 
has positive X directed forward, positive Y to the right, and positive Z directed down. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1/128 deg/bit, -200 deg offset 
Data Range: -200 to 301.99 deg Operational Range: -200 deg (DECENT) to +301.992 deg 
(ASCENT)
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65256 
SPN 584 Latitude 
Latitude position of the vehicle. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 10^-7 deg/bit, -210 deg offset 
Data Range: -210 to 211.1008122 deg Operational Range: -210 deg (SOUTH) to +211.108122 
deg (NORTH) 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65267 
SPN 585 Longitude 
Longitude position of the vehicle. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 10^-7 deg/bit, -210 deg offset 
Data Range: -210 to 211.1008122 deg Operational Range: -210 deg (WEST) to +211.108122 deg 
(EAST)
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65267 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 77 -
SPN 586 Make 
Make of the component corresponding to the codes defined in the American Trucking Association Vehicle Maintenance 
Reporting Standard (ATA/VMRS). 
Note: This parameter is to be transmitted as a 5 character ASCII string; as a zero length string, if not available. For 
example, International is transmitted as INTXX. 
Data Length: Variable - up to 5 bytes followed by an "*" delimiter 
Resolution: ASCII, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 255 per byte Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65259 
SPN 587 Model 
Model of the component. 
NOTE - The ASCII character "*" is reserved as a delimiter. 
Data Length: Variable - up to 200 bytes followed by an "*" delimiter 
Resolution: ASCII, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 255 per byte Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65259 
SPN 588 Serial Number 
Serial number of the component. 
NOTE - The ASCII character "*" is reserved as a delimiter. 
Data Length: Variable - up to 200 bytes followed by an "*" delimiter 
Resolution: ASCII, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 255 per byte Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65259 
SPN 589 Alternator Speed 
Actual rotation speed of the alternator. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.5 rpm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 32,127.5 rpm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65237 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 78 -
SPN 590 Engine Idle Shutdown Timer State 
Status signal which indicates the current mode of operation of the idle shutdown timer system. See Figure SPN590_A. 
00 - Inactive 
01 - Active 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 590 
PGN reference: 65252 
SPN 591 Engine Idle Shutdown Timer Function 
Parameter which indicates the configuration of the idle shutdown timer system. 
00 - Disabled in calibration 
01 - Enabled in calibration 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65252 
SPN 592 Engine Idle Shutdown Timer Override 
Status signal which indicates the status of the override feature of the idle shutdown timer system. See Figure SPN590_A. 
00 - Inactive 
01 - Active 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65252 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 79 -
SPN 593 Engine Idle Shutdown has Shutdown Engine 
Status signal which identifies whether or not the engine has been shutdown by the idle shutdown timer system. See 
Figure SPN590_A. 
00 - No 
01 - Yes 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65252 
SPN 594 Engine Idle Shutdown Driver Alert Mode 
Status signal which indicates the status of the driver alert mode of the idle shutdown timer system. While the driver alert 
mode is active, the idle shutdown timer may be overridden. See Figure SPN590_A. 
00 - Inactive 
01 - Active 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65252 
SPN 595 Cruise Control Active 
Cruise control is switched on. It is not ensured that the engine is controlled by cruise control, as in the case of a large 
driver's demand the engine is controlled by the driver while cruise control is active (maximum selection of cruise control 
and driver’s demand). The cruise control is set to 0 if a switch off condition occurs. 
00 - Cruise control switched off 
01 - Cruise control switched on 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65265 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 80 -
SPN 596 Cruise Control Enable Switch 
Switch signal which indicates that it is possible to manage the cruise control function. 
00 - Cruise control disabled 
01 - Cruise control enabled 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65265 
SPN 597 Brake Switch 
Switch signal which indicates that the driver operated brake foot pedal is being pressed. This brake foot pedal is 
controlling the vehicles’ service brake (total vehicle braking application, not park brakes). It is necessary for safe 
drivetrain behavior that the switch activates before the physical braking components are activated (i.e. Disengage the 
cruise control function prior to the activation of friction brakes). 
00 - Brake pedal released 
01 - Brake pedal depressed 
10 - Error 
11 - Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65265 
SPN 598 Clutch Switch 
Switch signal which indicates that the clutch pedal is being pressed. It is necessary for a safe drivetrain behavior that the 
clutch switch is set before the clutch is opened (cruise control function). 
00 - Clutch pedal released 
01 - Clutch pedal depressed 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65265 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 81 -
SPN 599 Cruise Control Set Switch 
Switch signal of the cruise control activator which indicates that the activator is in the position “set.” 
00 - Cruise control activator not in the position “set” 
01 - Cruise control activator in position “set” 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65265 
SPN 600 Cruise Control Coast (Decelerate) Switch 
Switch signal of the cruise control activator which indicates that the activator is in the position “coast (decelerate).” 
00 - Cruise control activator not in the position “coast” 
01 - Cruise control activator in position “coast” 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65265 
SPN 601 Cruise Control Resume Switch 
Switch signal of the cruise control activator which indicates that the activator is in the position “resume.” 
00 - Cruise control activator not in the position “resume” 
01 - Cruise control activator in position “resume” 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65265 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 82 -
SPN 602 Cruise Control Accelerate Switch 
Switch signal of the cruise control activator which indicates that the activator is in the position “accelerate.” 
00 - Cruise control activator not in the position “accelerate” 
01 - Cruise control activator in position “accelerate” 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65265 
SPN 604 Transmission Neutral Switch 
Identifies the status of the switch that indicates neutral. 
00 - Off 
01 - On 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65219 
SPN 605 Refrigerant High Pressure Switch 
Switch signal which indicates the position of the high pressure switch in the coolant circuit of an air conditioning system.
When the switch is enabled, the pressure inside the circuit is too high and the compressor clutch may be disengaged. 
00 - Pressure normal 
01 - Pressure too high, compressor clutch may be disengaged 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65252 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 83 -
SPN 606 Engine Momentary Overspeed Enable 
Command signal used to indicate that the engine speed may be boosted up to the maximum engine overspeed value to 
accommodate transmission downshifts. The maximum time for overspeed is limited by the time defined in the engine 
configuration message (see PGN 65,251). The transmission module must command a “override disabled” state at least 
once before the engine will accept a subsequent request for overspeed. 
00 Momentary engine overspeed is disabled 
01 Momentary engine overspeed is enabled 
10 Reserved 
11 Take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61442 
SPN 607 Progressive Shift Disable 
Command signal used to indicate that progressive shifting by the engine should be disallowed. 
00 Progressive shift is not disabled 
01 Progressive shift is disabled 
10 Reserved 
11 Take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61442 
SPN 619 Parking Brake Actuator 
Signal which indicates the current state of the actuator(s) that control the parking brake (see also SPN 70 and 5275). 
00 - Parking brake actuator inactive 
01 - Parking brake actuator active 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 5275 
PGN reference: 65274 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 84 -
SPN 626 Engine Start Enable Device 1 
Devices that assist an Engine in starting, e.g. intake heaters and ether. Primary starting aid. 
Parameter indicating whether the start enable device 1 is ON or OFF 
00 - start enable OFF 
01 - start enable ON 
10 - reserved 
11 - not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64966 
SPN 632 Engine Fuel Shutoff 1 Control 
Control setting for fuel shutoff 1. The second instance is SPN 2807. For a single fuel shutoff system, this represents its 
commanded position. For a dual fuel shutoff system, this SPN is representative of the upstream fuel shutoff commanded 
position. When fuel (gas) is desired at the engine, the fuel shutoff is opened. Otherwise, it is closed. 
00 = Open (fuel supplied to engine) 
01 = Closed (no fuel supplied to engine) 
10 = Reserved 
11 = Don't care / take no action 
In addition to communicating desired action of fuel shutoff 1 and its driver status, this new SPN can be used to 
communicate whether fuel shutoff 1 feedback position (if available) matches the commanded position, through the use of 
FMIs. 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64914 
SPN 633 Engine Fuel Actuator 1 Control Command 
The control command to fuel actuator 1, normalized to percent, where 0% represents fully closed and 100% represents 
fully open. Typically, this fuel actuator is used to regulate low pressure natural gas flow rate, mixing into the air flow, 
which together then come into the engine. Using the standard convention for determining the position. Left/front is #1 and 
right/rear is #2 (SPN 1244). 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.0025 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 160.6375 % Operational Range: 0 to 100% 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61466 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 85 -
SPN 641 Engine Variable Geometry Turbocharger Actuator #1 
Actuator that controls the variable geometry turbocharger geometry.The control command to the actuator, normalized to 
percent, where 0% nominally represents fully closed (smallest turbocharger geometry) and 100% represents fully open 
(largest geometry turbocharger). 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64931 
(R) SPN 649 Engine Exhaust Back Pressure Regulator Control Command 
The control command to the Engine Exhaust Back Pressure Regulator, normalized to percent. 100 percent means the 
regulator is fully closed, providing the maximum restriction to exhaust gas flow from the engine. Zero percent means the 
regulator is fully open, providing the minimum available restriction. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.0025 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 160.6375 % Operational Range: 0 to 100% 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61486 
SPN 681 Transmission Gear Shift Inhibit Request 
Command signal to inhibit gear shifts. 
00 Gear shifts are allowed (disable function) 
01 Gear shifts are inhibited (enable function) 
10 Reserved 
11 Take no action (leave function as is) 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 256 
SPN 682 Transmission Torque Converter Lockup Disable Request 
Command signal to prevent torque converter lockup, which may cause problems in certain circumstances for ASR. 
00 Allow torque converter lockup 
01 Disable torque converter lockup 
10 Reserved 
11 Take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 256 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 86 -
SPN 683 Disengage Driveline Request 
Command signal used to simply disengage the driveline, e.g., to prevent engine drag torque from causing high wheel slip 
on slippery surfaces. 
00 Allow driveline engagement 
01 Disengage driveline 
10 Reserved 
11 Take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 256 
SPN 684 Requested Percent Clutch Slip 
Parameter which represents the percent clutch slip requested by a device. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 256 
SPN 685 Disengage Differential Lock Request - Front Axle 1 
Command signal used to disengage the various differential locks, e.g., to allow an undistributed individual wheel control 
by ABS. The differential locks are located as defined in Figure SPN564_A. 
00 Engage differential lock 
01 Disengage differential lock 
10 Reserved 
11 Take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 256 
SPN 686 Disengage Differential Lock Request - Front Axle 2 
Command signal used to disengage the various differential locks, e.g., to allow an undistributed individual wheel control 
by ABS. The differential locks are located as defined in Figure SPN564_A. 
00 Engage differential lock 
01 Disengage differential lock 
10 Reserved 
11 Take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 256 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 87 -
SPN 687 Disengage Differential Lock Request - Rear Axle 1 
Command signal used to disengage the various differential locks, e.g., to allow an undistributed individual wheel control 
by ABS. The differential locks are located as defined in Figure SPN564_A. 
00 Engage differential lock 
01 Disengage differential lock 
10 Reserved 
11 Take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 256 
SPN 688 Disengage Differential Lock Request - Rear Axle 2 
Command signal used to disengage the various differential locks, e.g., to allow an undistributed individual wheel control 
by ABS. The differential locks are located as defined in Figure SPN564_A. 
00 Engage differential lock 
01 Disengage differential lock 
10 Reserved 
11 Take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 256 
SPN 689 Disengage Differential Lock Request - Central 
Command signal used to disengage the various differential locks, e.g., to allow an undistributed individual wheel control 
by ABS. The differential locks are located as defined in Figure SPN564_A. 
00 Engage differential lock 
01 Disengage differential lock 
10 Reserved 
11 Take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 256 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 88 -
SPN 690 Disengage Differential Lock Request - Central Front 
Command signal used to disengage the various differential locks, e.g., to allow an undistributed individual wheel control 
by ABS. The differential locks are located as defined in Figure SPN564_A. 
00 Engage differential lock 
01 Disengage differential lock 
10 Reserved 
11 Take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 256 
SPN 691 Disengage Differential Lock Request - Central Rear 
Command signal used to disengage the various differential locks, e.g., to allow an undistributed individual wheel control 
by ABS. The differential locks are located as defined in Figure SPN564_A. 
00 Engage differential lock 
01 Disengage differential lock 
10 Reserved 
11 Take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 256 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 89 -
SPN 695 Engine Override Control Mode 
The override control mode defines which sort of command is used: 
00 Override disabled - Disable any existing control commanded by the source of this command. 
01 Speed control - Govern speed to the included “desired speed” value. 
10 Torque control - Control torque to the included “desired torque” value. 
11 Speed/torque limit control - Limit speed and/or torque based on the included limit values. The speed limit governor is 
a droop governor where the speed limit value defines the speed at the maximum torque available during this operation. 
If a device wants to know whether it has access to the engine, there are several possibilities: 
a. Comparing its command with the actual engine broadcasts. 
b. Looking at command modes from other devices. 
c. Looking to the engine and retarder torque mode. 
Remarks: 
a. The realization of a torque limit (minimum selection) is possible by setting the speed limit to a high value (0xFAFF). 
b. The realization of a speed limit (minimum selection) is possible by setting the torque limit to a high value (0xFA). 
c. Limiting the retarder torque means to limit the magnitude of the torque request. As the brake torque is represented by 
negative torque values, the limitation must be done by a maximum selection of the requested torque and the retarder 
internal torque signals. 
d. For torque increasing functions, time limits for the torque or speed value (command) and the direct modes are 
desirable.
e. The selection of which device has control of the engine's speed or torque depends on the override mode priority (see 
SPN 897) with the highest priority device gaining control. In the case of two devices with identical priority, the engine 
responds to speed/torque control commands over speed/torque limit commands and will act on the speed or torque 
commands on a first come, first served basis. The torque limit will be a “lowest wins” selection (e.g., if one device 
commands 60% limit and another 80% limit, then the engine will limit torque to 60%). Figure SPN695_A provides a 
flowchart of the torque/speed control priority selection logic. 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 695 
PGN reference: 0 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 90 -
SPN 696 Engine Requested Speed Control Conditions 
This mode tells the engine control system the governor characteristics that are desired during speed control. The four 
characteristics defined are: 
00 Transient Optimized for driveline disengaged and non-lockup conditions 
01 Stability Optimized for driveline disengaged and non-lockup conditions 
10 Stability Optimized for driveline engaged and/or in lockup condition 1 (e.g., vehicle driveline) 
11 Stability Optimized for driveline engaged and/or in lockup condition 2 (e.g., PTO driveline) 
00b - This speed governor gain selection is adjusted to provide rapid transition between speed setpoints. RPM overshoot 
and undershoot may be greater than what is seen when the “speed control characteristic” is set to be stability optimized. 
01b - This control condition has been optimized to minimize rpm overshoot and undershoot given an expected plant 
consisting of the engine and its accessory loads. This gain adjustment is not intended to compensate for driveline 
characteristics. This characteristic is most appropriate when no driveline is connected. 
10b - This control condition has been optimized to minimize rpm overshoot and undershoot given a more complex plant.
For instance, the more complex plant would contain the engine, its accessory loads and the driveline characteristics. As 
an example, the driveline characteristics might include the effective spring mass relationship of pumps, tires, clutches, 
axles, driveshafts, and multiple gear ratios. This characteristic is most appropriate when a driveline is engaged. 
11b - This speed control characteristic is available for applications requiring compensation for more than one driveline 
characteristic. It has been optimized to minimize rpm overshoot and undershoot given a more complex plant of the 
second variety. This more complex plant would again contain the engine, its accessory loads and a second driveline 
characteristic unique from the one described in speed control characteristic 10b. 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 0 
SPN 701 Auxiliary I/O #01 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65241 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 91 -
SPN 702 Auxiliary I/O #02 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65241 
SPN 703 Auxiliary I/O #03 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65241 
SPN 704 Auxiliary I/O #04 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65241 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 92 -
SPN 705 Auxiliary I/O #05 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65241 
SPN 706 Auxiliary I/O #06 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65241 
SPN 707 Auxiliary I/O #07 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65241 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 93 -
SPN 708 Auxiliary I/O #08 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65241 
SPN 709 Auxiliary I/O #09 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65241 
SPN 710 Auxiliary I/O #10 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65241 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 94 -
SPN 711 Auxiliary I/O #11 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65241 
SPN 712 Auxiliary I/O #12 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65241 
SPN 713 Auxiliary I/O #13 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65241 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 95 -
SPN 714 Auxiliary I/O #14 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65241 
SPN 715 Auxiliary I/O #15 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65241 
SPN 716 Auxiliary I/O #16 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65241 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 96 -
SPN 723 Engine Speed 2 
The engine speed as measured by speed sensor 2 
Note: This is for the engine speed from the 2nd engine speed sensor. This may be different than SPN 190 when used in 
multiple engine speed sensor configurations. In an application with multiple engine speed sensors, SPN 190 data can be 
derived from any of the speed sensors. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.5 rpm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 32,127.5 rpm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61473 
SPN 740 Transmission Lockup Clutch Actuator 
Identifies the status of the actuator that controls the lockup clutch. 
00 - Off 
01 - On 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65223 
SPN 748 Transmission Output Retarder 
Identifies the status of the transmission output retarder. 
00 - Off 
01 - On 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65218 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 97 -
SPN 767 Transmission Reverse Direction Switch 
Identifies the status of the switch that indicates reverse direction. 
00 - Off 
01 - On 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65219 
SPN 768 Transmission Range High Actuator 
Identifies the status of the range high actuator in the auxiliary unit. 
00 -Off 
01 -On 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65223 
SPN 769 Transmission Range Low Actuator 
Identifies the status of the range low actuator in the auxiliary unit. 
00 - Off 
01 - On 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65223 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 98 -
SPN 770 Transmission Splitter Direct Actuator 
Identifies the status of the splitter direct actuator in the auxiliary unit. 
00 - Off 
01 - On 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65223 
SPN 771 Transmission Splitter Indirect Actuator 
Identifies the status of the splitter indirect actuator in the auxiliary unit. 
00 - Off 
01 - On 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65223 
SPN 772 Transmission Shift Finger Rail Actuator 1 
Identifies the status of the actuator that moves the shift finger identified as rail actuator #1. 
00 - Off 
01 - On 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65223 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 99 -
SPN 773 Transmission Shift Finger Gear Actuator 1 
Identifies the status of the actuator that moves the shift finger identified as gear actuator #1. 
00 - Off 
01 - On 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65223 
SPN 778 Transmission High Range Sense Switch 
Identifies the status of the switch that represents high range. 
00 - Off 
01 - On 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65219 
SPN 779 Transmission Low Range Sense Switch 
Identifies the status of the switch that represents low range. 
00 - Off 
01 - On 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65219 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 100 -
SPN 780 Transmission Shift Finger Neutral Indicator 
Indicates the status of the shift finger in the neutral position. 
00 - Off 
01 - On 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65223 
SPN 781 Transmission Shift Finger Engagement Indicator 
Identifies the status of the shift finger in the engagement position. 
00 - Off 
01 - On 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65223 
SPN 782 Transmission Shift Finger Center Rail Indicator 
Identifies the status of the shift finger in the center rail position. 
00 - Off 
01 - On 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65223 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 101 -
SPN 783 Transmission Shift Finger Rail Actuator 2 
Identifies the status of the actuator that moves the shift finger identified as rail actuator #2. 
00 - Off 
01 - On 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65223 
SPN 784 Transmission Shift Finger Gear Actuator 2 
Identifies the status of the actuator that moves the shift finger identified as gear actuator #2. 
00 - Off 
01 - On 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65223 
SPN 786 Transmission Defuel Actuator 
Identifies the status of the actuator that controls the engine defuel mechanism. 
00 - Off 
01 - On 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65223 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 102 -
SPN 787 Transmission Inertia Brake Actuator 
Identifies the status of the actuator that controls the inertia brake. 
00 - Off 
01 - On 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65223 
SPN 788 Transmission Clutch Actuator 
Identifies the status of the actuator that controls the clutch. 
00 - Off 
01 - On 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65223 
SPN 875 Refrigerant Low Pressure Switch 
Switch signal which indicates the position of the low pressure switch in the coolant circuit of an air conditioning system.
When the switch is enabled, the pressure inside the circuit is too low and the compressor clutch may be disengaged. 
00 - Pressure normal 
01 - Pressure too low, compressor clutch may be disengaged 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65252 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 103 -
SPN 897 Override Control Mode Priority 
This field is used as an input to the engine or retarder to determine the priority of the Override Control Mode received in 
the Torque/Speed Control message (see PGN 0). The default is 11 (Low priority). It is not required to use the same 
priority during the entire override function. For example, the transmission can use priority 01 (High priority) during a shift,
but can set the priority to 11 (Low priority) at the end of the shift to allow traction control to also interact with the torque
limit of the engine. 
The four priority levels defined are: 
00 Highest priority 
01 High priority 
10 Medium priority 
11 Low priority 
00b - Highest Priority = Used for situations that require immediate action by the receiving device in order to provide safe 
vehicle operation (i.e., braking systems). This level of priority should only be used in safety critical conditions. 
01b - High Priority = Used for control situations that require prompt action in order to provide safe vehicle operation. An
example is when the transmission is performing a shift and requires control of the engine in order to control driveline 
reengagement.
10b - Medium Priority = Used for powertrain control operations which are related to assuring that the vehicle is in a stable 
operating condition. An example is when the traction control system is commanding the engine in order to achieve 
traction stability. 
11b - Low Priority = Used to indicate that the associated command desires powertrain control but is needed for function 
which improves the driver comfort which may be overridden by other devices. An example is cruise control or the noncritical part of a transmission shift to a new gear. 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 0 
SPN 898 Engine Requested Speed/Speed Limit 
Parameter provided to the engine from external sources in the torque/speed control message. This is the engine speed 
which the engine is expected to operate at if the speed control mode is active or the engine speed which the engine is not 
expected to exceed if the speed limit mode is active. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.125 rpm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 8,031.875 rpm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 0 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 104 -
SPN 899 Engine Torque Mode 
State signal which indicates which engine torque mode is currently generating, limiting, or controlling the torque. Note 
that the modes are not in prioritized order. Not all modes may be relevant for a given device. Some devices may not 
implement all functions. For typical priorities refer to Figures SPN512_A and SPN512_B for engine control. The data 
type of this parameter is measured.
Mode 0000b means “No request”: engine torque may range from 0 to full load only due to low idle governor output. 
Modes 0001b to 1110b indicate that there is either a torque request or the identified function is currently controlling the 
engine: engine torque may range from 0 (no fueling) to the upper limit. 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 899 
PGN reference: 61444 
SPN 900 Retarder Torque Mode 
State signal which indicates which retarder torque mode is currently generating, limiting, or controlling the torque. Note 
that the modes are not in prioritized order. Not all modes may be relevant for a given device. Some devices may not 
implement all functions. For typical priorities refer to Tables SPN518_A to SPN518_B for retarder control. The data type 
of this parameter is measured.
Mode 0000b means “No request”: retarder torque = 0 (no braking). 
Modes 0001b to 1110b indicate that there is either a torque request or the identified function is currently controlling the 
retarder: retarder torque may range from 0 (no braking) to the upper limit. 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 899 
PGN reference: 61440 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 105 -
SPN 901 Retarder Type 
A vehicle retarder is a supplementary device to the wheel brakes for the driver to better control the vehicle. The wheel 
brakes used in the vehicle are not designed for continuous retarding operation. In a prolonged period of braking, the 
brakes can be thermally over-stressed, causing the braking effect to be reduced or even lead to complete braking system 
failure. The vehicle retarder is designed for continuous operation for braking during downhill operation and is also used 
for braking the vehicle to comply with speed limits and traffic conditions. 
This parameter provides some indication of the retarder dynamics. It is used in the retarder configuration message. The 
data type of this parameter is measured. 
0000 Electric/Magnetic 
0001 Hydraulic 
0010 Cooled Friction 
0011 Compression Release (Engine retarder) 
0100 Exhaust 
0101-1101 Not defined 
1110 Other 
1111 Not available 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 901 
PGN reference: 65249 
SPN 902 Retarder Location 
This parameter defines whether the “torque/speed curve” defined by the retarder configuration message (PGN 65249) is 
dependent on engine rpm, output shaft rpm, or other parameter. The data type of this parameter is measured. 
0000 (Primary) Engine Compression Release Brake (Engine rpm) 
0001 (Primary) Engine Exhaust Brake (Exhaust pressure) 
0010 (Primary) Transmission Input (Engine rpm) 
0011 (Secondary) Transmission Output (Output Shaft rpm) 
0100 (Secondary) Driveline (Output Shaft rpm) 
0101 Trailer (Vehicle speed) 
0110-1101 Not defined 
1110 Other 
1111 Not available 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65249 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 106 -
SPN 903 Transmission Forward Direction Switch 
Identifies the status of the switch that indicates forward direction. 
00 - Off 
01 - On 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65219 
SPN 904 Front Axle Speed 
The average speed of the two front wheels. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1/256 km/h per bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250.996 km/h Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65215 
SPN 905 Relative Speed; Front Axle, Left Wheel 
The speed of the front axle, left wheel relative to the front axle speed, SPN 904. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1/16 km/h per bit, -7.8125 km/h offset 
Data Range: -7.8125 to 7.8125 km/h Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65215 
SPN 906 Relative Speed; Front Axle, Right Wheel 
The speed of the front axle, right wheel relative to the front axle speed, SPN 904. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1/16 km/h per bit, -7.8125 km/h offset 
Data Range: -7.8125 to 7.8125 km/h Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65215 
SPN 907 Relative Speed; Rear Axle #1, Left Wheel 
The speed of the rear axle #1, left wheel relative to the front axle speed, SPN 904. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1/16 km/h per bit, -7.8125 km/h offset 
Data Range: -7.8125 to 7.8125 km/h Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65215 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 107 -
SPN 908 Relative Speed; Rear Axle #1, Right Wheel 
The speed of the rear axle #1, right wheel relative to the front axle speed, SPN 904. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1/16 km/h per bit, -7.8125 km/h offset 
Data Range: -7.8125 to 7.8125 km/h Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65215 
SPN 909 Relative Speed; Rear Axle #2, Left Wheel 
The speed of the rear axle #2, left wheel relative to the front axle speed, SPN 904. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1/16 km/h per bit, -7.8125 km/h offset 
Data Range: -7.8125 to 7.8125 km/h Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65215 
SPN 910 Relative Speed; Rear Axle #2, Right Wheel 
The speed of the rear axle #2, right wheel relative to the front axle speed, SPN 904. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1/16 km/h per bit, -7.8125 km/h offset 
Data Range: -7.8125 to 7.8125 km/h Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65215 
SPN 911 Service Component Identification 
Identification of component needing service. See Table SPN911_A. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 ID/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 ID Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 911 
PGN reference: 65216 
SPN 912 Service Component Identification 
Identification of component needing service. See Table SPN911_A. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 ID/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 ID Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65216 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 108 -
SPN 913 Service Component Identification 
Identification of component needing service. See Table SPN911_A. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 ID/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 ID Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65216 
SPN 914 Service Distance 
The distance which can be traveled by the vehicle before the next service inspection is required. A negative distance is 
transmitted if the service inspection has been passed. The component that requires service is identified by the service 
component identification (see SPN 911-913, 1379, and 1584). 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 5 km/bit, -160,635 km offset 
Data Range: -160,635 to 160,640 km Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65216 
SPN 915 Service Delay/Calendar Time Based 
The time in weeks until the next vehicle service inspection is required. A negative value is transmitted if the service 
inspection has been passed. The component that requires service is identified by the service component identification 
(see SPN 911-913, 1379, and 1584). 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 week/bit, -125 weeks offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 weeks Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65216 
SPN 916 Service Delay/Operational Time Based 
The time in vehicle operational time until the next vehicle service inspection is required. A negative value is transmitted if
the service inspection has been passed. The component that requires service is identified by the service component 
identification (see SPN 911-913, 1379, and 1584). 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1 hr/bit, -32,127 hr offset 
Data Range: -32,127 to 32,128 hr Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65216 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 109 -
SPN 917 High Resolution Total Vehicle Distance 
Accumulated distance traveled by the vehicle during its operation. 
NOTE - See SPN 245 for alternate resolution. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 5 m/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 21,055,406 km Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65217 
SPN 918 High Resolution Trip Distance 
Distance traveled during all or part of a journey. 
NOTE - See SPN 244 for alternate resolution. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 5 m/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 21,055,406 km Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65217 
SPN 927 Location 
To identify to which of several similar devices (such as tires or fuel tanks) the information applies. 
The low order 4 bits represent a position number, counting left to right when facing in the direction of normal vehicle travel 
(forward).
The high order 4 bits represent a position number, counting front to back on the vehicle. 
The value 0xFF indicates not available. 
It is recommended that output devices add 1 to the position number (range 1 to 15, not 0 to 14) for use by drivers and 
service technicians. 
Examples: Tire pressure for location 0x00 would be left front tire. 
Tire pressure for location 0x23 would be right outside rear rear on a 3-axle tractor with dual axle per side (3rd axle, 4th 
tire).
Data Length: 8 bits 
Resolution: 256 states/8 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 255 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61446 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 110 -
SPN 928 Axle Location 
To identify to which of several similar devices (such as tires or fuel tanks) the information applies. 
The low order 4 bits represent a position number, counting left to right when facing in the direction of normal vehicle travel 
(forward).
The high order 4 bits represent a position number, counting front to back on the vehicle. 
The value 0xFF indicates not available. 
It is recommended that output devices add 1 to the position number (range 1 to 15, not 0 to 14) for use by drivers and 
service technicians. 
Examples: Tire pressure for location 0x00 would be left front tire. 
Tire pressure for location 0x23 would be right outside rear rear on a 3-axle tractor with dual axle per side (3rd axle, 4th 
tire).
Data Length: 8 bits 
Resolution: 256 states/8 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 255 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65258 
SPN 929 Tire Location 
Identifies which tire is associated with the parametric data in this PGN. 
The low order 4 bits represent a position number, counting left to right when facing in the direction of normal vehicle travel 
(forward).
The high order 4 bits represent a position number, counting front to back on the vehicle. 
The value 0xFF indicates not available. 
It is recommended that output devices add 1 to the position number (range 1 to 15, not 0 to 14) for use by drivers and 
service technicians. 
Examples: Tire pressure for location 0x00 would be left front tire. 
Tire pressure for location 0x23 would be right outside rear rear on a 3-axle tractor with dual axle per side (3rd axle, 4th 
tire).
Data Length: 8 bits 
Resolution: 256 states/8 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 255 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65268 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 111 -
SPN 930 Drive Axle Location 
To identify to which of several similar devices (such as tires or fuel tanks) the information applies. 
The low order 4 bits represent a position number, counting left to right when facing in the direction of normal vehicle travel 
(forward).
The high order 4 bits represent a position number, counting front to back on the vehicle. 
The value 0xFF indicates not available. 
It is recommended that output devices add 1 to the position number (range 1 to 15, not 0 to 14) for use by drivers and 
service technicians. 
Examples: Tire pressure for location 0x00 would be left front tire. 
Tire pressure for location 0x23 would be right outside rear rear on a 3-axle tractor with dual axle per side (3rd axle, 4th 
tire).
Data Length: 8 bits 
Resolution: 256 states/8 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 255 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65273 
SPN 957 Number of Forward Gear Ratios 
Number of forward gear ratios in the transmission, provided as part of the configuration. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 gear value/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 Operational Range: 0 to 125 gear ratios 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65250 
SPN 958 Number of Reverse Gear Ratios 
Number of reverse gear ratios in the transmission, provided as part of the transmission configuration. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 gear value/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 Operational Range: 0 to 125 gear ratios 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65250 
SPN 959 Seconds 
The seconds component of the current time of day. This should be reported as the seconds component of the current 
time at UTC (Universal Time Coordinate), a.k.a. GMT; however, it may be reported as the seconds component of the 
current time at a local time zone. The Local Hour Offset parameter (SPN 1602) is used to indicate if the time of day 
(SPNs 959, 960, and 961) is the current UTC time or a local time zone time. Refer to SPN 1602 for details. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.25 s/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 62.5 s Operational Range: 0 to 59.75 sec 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 65254 
PGN reference: 65254 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 112 -
SPN 960 Minutes 
The minutes component of the current time of day. This should be reported as the minutes component of the current time 
at UTC (Universal Time Coordinate), a.k.a. GMT; however, it may be reported as the minutes component of the current 
time at a local time zone. The Local Hour Offset parameter (SPN 1602) is used to indicate if the time of day (SPNs 959, 
960, and 961) is the current UTC time or a local time zone time. Refer to SPN 1602 for details. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 min/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 mins Operational Range: 0 to 59 min 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 65254 
PGN reference: 65254 
SPN 961 Hours 
The hour component of the current time of day. This should be reported as the hour component of the current time at 
UTC (Universal Time Coordinate), a.k.a. GMT; however, it may be reported as the hour component of the current time at 
a local time zone. The Local Hour Offset parameter (SPN 1602) is used to indicate if time of day (SPNs 959, 960, and 
961) is the current UTC time or a local time zone time. Refer to SPN 1602 for details. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 hr/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 hr Operational Range: 0 to 23 hr 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 65254 
PGN reference: 65254 
SPN 962 Day 
The day component of the current calendar date. This should be reported as the day component of the current date at 
UTC (Universal Time Coordinate), a.k.a. GMT; however, it may be reported as the day component of the current date at a 
local time zone. The Local Hour Offset parameter (SPN 1602) is used to indicate if the calendar date (SPNs 962, 963, 
and 964) is the current UTC date or a local time zone date. Refer to SPN 1602 for details. 
NOTE - A value of 0 for the date is null. The values 1, 2, 3, and 4 are used to identify the first day of the month; 5, 6, 7, 
and 8 identify the second day of the month; etc. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.25 days/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 62.5 days Operational Range: 0.25 to 31.75 day 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 65254 
PGN reference: 65254 
SPN 963 Month 
The month component of the current calendar date. This should be reported as the month component of the current date 
at UTC (Universal Time Coordinate), a.k.a. GMT; however, it may be reported as the month component of the current 
date at a local time zone. The Local Hour Offset parameter (SPN 1602) is used to indicate if the calendar date (SPNs 
962, 963, and 964) is the current UTC date or a local time zone date. Refer to SPN 1602 for details. 
NOTE - A value of 0 for the month is null. The value 1 identifies January; 2 identifies February; etc. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 month/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 months Operational Range: 1 to 12 month 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 65254 
PGN reference: 65254 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 113 -
SPN 964 Year 
The year component of the current calendar date. This should be reported as the year component of the current date at 
UTC (Universal Time Coordinate), a.k.a. GMT; however, it may be reported as the year component of the current date at 
a local time zone. The Local Hour Offset parameter (SPN 1602) is used to indicate if the calendar date (SPNs 962, 963, 
and 964) is the current UTC date or a local time zone date. Refer to SPN 1602 for details. 
NOTE - A value of 0 for the year identifies the year 1985; a value of 1 identifies 1986; etc. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 year/bit, 1985 years offset 
Data Range: 1985 to 2235 years Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 65254 
PGN reference: 65254 
SPN 965 Number of Software Identification Fields 
Number of software identification designators represented in the software identification parameter group. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 step/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 steps Operational Range: 0 to 125 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65242 
SPN 966 Engine Test Mode Switch 
Switch signal which indicates the position of the engine test mode switch. 
00 - Off 
01 - On 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65265 
SPN 967 Engine Idle Decrement Switch 
Switch signal which indicates the position of the idle decrement switch. 
00 - Off 
01 - On 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65265 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 114 -
SPN 968 Engine Idle Increment Switch 
Switch signal which indicates the position of the idle increment switch. 
00 - Off 
01 - On 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65265 
SPN 969 Remote Accelerator Enable Switch 
Switch signal which indicates that the remote accelerator has been enabled and controls the engine.
00 - Off 
01 - On 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
NOTE—The accelerator interlock switch (see SPN 972) must be disabled in order for the remote accelerator to perform 
engine control. 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61441 
SPN 970 Engine Auxiliary Shutdown Switch 
Switch signal which requests that all engine fueling stop. 
00 - Off 
01 - On 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61441 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 115 -
SPN 971 Engine Derate Switch 
Switch signal used to activate the torque limiting feature of the engine. The specific nature of torque limiting should be 
verified with the manufacturer. 
00 - Off 
01 - On 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61441 
SPN 972 Accelerator Interlock Switch 
Switch signal used to disable the accelerator and remote accelerator inputs, causing the engine to return to idle. 
00 - Off 
01 - On 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61441 
SPN 973 Engine Retarder Selection 
The position of the operator controlled selector, expressed as a percentage and determined by the ratio of the current 
position of the selector to its maximum possible position. Zero percent means no braking torque is requested by the 
operator from the engine while 100% means maximum braking. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61441 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 116 -
SPN 974 Remote Accelerator Pedal Position 
The ratio of actual position of the remote analog engine speed/torque request input device (such as an accelerator pedal 
or throttle lever) to the maximum position of the input device.
For example, in on-highway vehicles this could be an accelerator control device that is external to the drivers cab or an 
accelerator that is controlled by a hand lever from the operators seat.
The Remote Accelerator Enable Switch is SPN 969. This parameter enables the remote accelerator operation. 
NOTE—See SPNs 29 and 91 for additional accelerator position parameters. If only one accelerator 
position exists on a vehicle, SPN 91 shall be used. SPN 28 is an additional diagnostic SPN for accelerator position. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61443 
SPN 975 Estimated Percent Fan Speed 
Estimated fan speed as a ratio of the fan drive (current speed) to the fully engaged fan drive (maximum fan speed). A two 
state fan (off/on) will use 0% and 100% respectively. A three state fan (off/intermediate/on) will use 0%, 50% and 100% 
respectively. A variable speed fan will use 0% to 100%. Multiple fan systems will use 0 to 100% to indicate the percent 
cooling capacity being provided. 
Note that the intermediate fan speed of a three state fan will vary with different fan drives, therefore 50% is being used to 
indicate that the intermediate speed is required from the fan drive. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65213 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 117 -
SPN 976 PTO Governor State 
This parameter is used to indicate the current state or mode of operation by the power takeoff (PTO) governor. In lieu of 
support for PTO Drive Engagement parameters, this parameter may represent the status of a PTO drive. The 
broadcasting device must ensure that each achieved state is conveyed in at least one message broadcast before a 
transition to another state is allowed. 
00000 Off/Disabled 
00001 Hold 
00010 Remote Hold 
00011 Standby 
00100 Remote Standby 
00101 Set 
00110 Decelerate/Coast 
00111 Resume 
01000 Accelerate 
01001 Accelerator Override 
01010 Preprogrammed set speed 1 
01011 Preprogrammed set speed 2 
01100 Preprogrammed set speed 3 
01101 Preprogrammed set speed 4 
01110 Preprogrammed set speed 5 
01111 Preprogrammed set speed 6 
10000 Preprogrammed set speed 7 
10001 Preprogrammed set speed 8 
10010 PTO set speed memory 1 
10011 PTO set speed memory 2 
10100-11110 Not defined 
11111 Not available 
Off/Disabled 00000b — Used to indicate that the PTO governor enable switch is in the off position. 
Hold 00001b — Used to indicate that the PTO governor is active and currently maintaining a captured operating speed. 
Remote Hold 00010b — Used to indicate that the remote PTO governor is active and the PTO governor is currently 
maintaining a captured operating speed. 
Standby 00011b — Used to indicate that the PTO governor device enable switch is in the ON position and it is possible to 
manage the PTO governor. 
Remote Standby 00100b — Used to indicate that the remote PTO governor device enable switch is in the ON position 
and it is possible to manage the PTO governor. 
Set 00101b — Used to indicate that the PTO governor is establishing current speed as the operating speed (captured 
value).
Decelerate/Coast 00110b — Used to indicate that the PTO governor is in the process of ramping down, or coasting, from 
the current operating speed. 
Resume 00111b — Used to indicate that the PTO governor is in the process of resuming the operating speed to a 
previously captured value. 
Accelerate 01000b — Used to indicate that the PTO governor is in the process of ramping up the operating speed. 
Accelerator Override 01001b—Used to indicate that the PTO governor is active but for the present time the engine is 
controlled by a large driver's demand. 
Preprogrammed PTO Governor Set Speed 1 01010b—Used to indicate that the PTO device is establishing a first 
preprogrammed PTO governor set speed (user programmable) as the current operating speed. 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 118 -
Preprogrammed PTO Governor Set Speed 2 01011b—Used to indicate that the PTO device is establishing a second 
preprogrammed PTO governor set speed (user programmable) as the current operating speed. 
Preprogrammed PTO Governor Set Speed 3 01100b —Used to indicate that the remote PTO device is establishing a 
third preprogrammed PTO governor set speed (user programmable) as the current operating speed. 
Preprogrammed PTO Governor Set Speed 4 01101b —Used to indicate that the remote PTO device is establishing a 
fourth preprogrammed PTO governor set speed (user programmable) as the current operating speed. 
Preprogrammed PTO Governor Set Speed 5 01110b —Used to indicate that the remote PTO device is establishing a fifth 
preprogrammed PTO governor set speed (user programmable) as the current operating speed. 
Preprogrammed PTO Governor Set Speed 6 01111b—Used to indicate that the remote PTO device is establishing a 
sixth preprogrammed PTO governor set speed (user programmable) as the current operating speed. 
Preprogrammed PTO Governor Set Speed 7 10000b —Used to indicate that the remote PTO device is establishing a 
seventh preprogrammed PTO governor set speed (user programmable) as the current operating speed. 
Preprogrammed PTO Governor Set Speed 8 10001b —Used to indicate that the remote PTO device is establishing a 
eighth preprogrammed PTO governor set speed (user programmable) as the current operating speed. 
PTO set speed memory 1 10010b —Used to indicate that PTO set speed memory one set state is active. 
PTO set speed memory 2 10011b — Used to indicate that PTO set speed memory two set state is active. 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: 32 states/5 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65265 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 119 -
SPN 977 Fan Drive State 
This parameter is used to indicate the current state or mode of operation by the fan drive. 
0000 Fan off 
0001 Engine system–General 
0010 Excessive engine air temperature 
0011 Excessive engine oil temperature 
0100 Excessive engine coolant temperature 
0101 Excessive transmission oil temperature 
0110 Excessive hydraulic oil temperature 
0111 Default Operation 
1000 Reverse Operation 
1001 Manual control 
1010 Transmission retarder 
1011 A/C system 
1100 Timer 
1101 Engine brake 
1110 Other 
1111 Not available 
Fan off 0000b —Used to indicate that the fan clutch is disengaged and the fan is inactive 
Engine system–General 0001b —Used to indicate that the fan is active due to an engine system not otherwise defined. 
Excessive engine air temperature 0010b —Used to indicate that the fan is active due to high air temperature. 
Excessive engine oil temperature 0011b —Used to indicate that the fan is active due to high oil temperature. 
Excessive engine coolant temperature 0100b —Used to indicate that the fan is active due to high coolant temperature. 
Reverse Operation 1000b — Used to indicate that the fan is in reverse direction of operation compared to the normal 
direction of operation
Manual control 1001b —Used to indicate that the fan is active as requested by the operator. 
Transmission retarder 1010b —Used to indicate that the fan is active as required by the transmission retarder. 
A/C system 1011b —Used to indicate that the fan is active as required by the air conditioning system. 
Timer 1100b —Used to indicate that the fan is active as required by a timing function. 
Engine brake 1101b —Used to indicate that the fan is active as required to assist engine braking. 
Excessive transmission oil temperature - 0101b - Used to indicate fan is active due to excessive transmission oil 
temperature.
Excessive hydraulic oil temperature - 0110b - Used to indicate fan is active due to excessive hydraulic oil temperature. 
Default Operation - 0111b - Used to indicate fan is active due to a error condition resulting in default operation 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65213 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 120 -
SPN 978 Engine Remote PTO Governor Variable Speed Control Switch 
Switch signal which indicates that the remote PTO governor toggle switch is in the enabled (ON) position. If the toggle 
switch is enabled and other conditions are satisfied then the remote PTO governor feature is activated and the PTO 
governor will control at a variable speed. 
00 - Off 
01 - On 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65264 
SPN 979 Engine Remote PTO Governor Preprogrammed Speed Control Switch 
Switch signal which indicates that the remote PTO governor toggle switch is in the enabled (ON) position. If the toggle 
switch is enabled and other conditions are satisfied then the remote PTO governor feature is activated and the PTO 
governor will control at the preprogrammed speed. 
00 - Off 
01 - On 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65264 
SPN 980 Engine PTO Governor Enable Switch 
Switch signal which indicates that the PTO governor toggle switch is in the enabled (ON) position and therefore it is 
possible to manage the PTO control function. 
00 - Off 
01 - On 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65264 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 121 -
SPN 981 Engine PTO Governor Accelerate Switch 
Switch signal of the PTO control activator which indicates that the activator is in the position to "accelerate" the PTO 
governor set speed. 
00 - Off 
01 - On 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65264 
SPN 982 Engine PTO Governor Resume Switch 
Switch signal of the PTO control activator which indicates that the activator is in the position to "resume" a previously 
established PTO governor set speed. 
00 - Off 
01 - On 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65264 
SPN 983 Engine PTO Governor Coast/Decelerate Switch 
Switch signal of the PTO control activator which indicates that the activator is in the position to "coast/decelerate" the PTO 
governor set speed. 
00 - Off 
01 - On 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65264 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 122 -
SPN 984 Engine PTO Governor Set Switch 
Switch signal of the PTO control activator which indicates that the activator is in the position to "set" the engine PTO 
governor set speed. 
00 - Off 
01 - On 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65264 
SPN 985 A/C High Pressure Fan Switch 
Switch signal which indicates that the pressure in the coolant circuit of an air conditioning system is high and the fan may 
be engaged. 
00 - Pressure normal 
01 - Pressure high, fan may be engaged 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65252 
SPN 986 Requested Percent Fan Speed 
Fan speed as a ratio of the actual fan drive (current speed) to the fully engaged fan drive (maximum fan speed). A two 
state fan (off/on) will use 0% and 100% respectively. A three state fan (off/intermediate/on) will use 0%, 50% and 100% 
respectively. A variable speed fan will use 0% to 100%. Multiple fan systems will use 0 to 100% to indicate the percent 
cooling capacity being provided. Feedback to this request is provided using the estimated fan speed (see SPN 975). 
Note that the intermediate fan speed of a three state fan will vary with different fan drives, therefore 50% is being used to 
indicate that the intermediate speed is required from the fan drive. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 57344 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 123 -
SPN 988 Trip Group 1 
Command signal used to reset the PGNs and parameters as defined in Table SPN988_A. 
00 Take no action 
01 Reset 
10 Reserved 
11 Not applicable 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 988 
PGN reference: 56832 
SPN 989 Trip Group 2 - Proprietary 
Command signal used to reset proprietary parameters associated with a trip but not defined within this document. 
00 Take no action 
01 Reset 
10 Reserved 
11 Not applicable 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 56832 
SPN 990 Total Compression Brake Distance 
Total distance over which the compression brakes have been active for the life of the engine. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 0.125 km/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 526,385,151.9 km Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65212 
SPN 991 Trip Compression Brake Distance 
Total distance over which the compression brakes have been active since the last trip reset. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 0.125 km/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 526,385,151.9 km Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65212 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 124 -
SPN 992 Trip Service Brake Distance 
Total distance over which the service brakes have been active since the last trip reset. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 0.125 km/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 526,385,151.9 km Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65212 
SPN 993 Trip Service Brake Applications 
Total number of times the service brakes have been activated since the last trip reset. Brake applications of less than 0.5 
s are not counted and lengthy brake applications (longer than 0.5 s) are counted as a single event. 
NOTE - Definition and resolution shall stay the same if brakes are applied by only the tractor, only the trailer or both. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 1 brake appl/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 4,227,858,431 appl Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65212 
SPN 994 Trip Fan On Time 
Total time the fan has been on (due to an automatic trigger or manual trigger) since the last trip reset. The fan could be 
requested to be on by the engine system, a manual switch, and/or the A/C system. Whichever system requests the fan 
activation first shall have the time accumulated against it. The sum total of these three values shall equal the trip fan on 
time.
NOTE—If the fan has been requested to be on by a component that is not one of the defined categories, this time shall be 
accumulated in the Engine System category by default. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 0.05 hr/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 210,554,060.75 hr Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65211 
SPN 995 Trip Fan On Time Due to the Engine System 
Total time the fan has been on due to engine triggers (i.e., excluding time on due to an operator manual switch or A/C 
system) since the last trip reset. For the time to be accumulated against the engine system, it is necessary that it be the 
first to request the fan activation or it be the only system requesting fan activation. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 0.05 hr/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 210,554,060.75 hr Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65211 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 125 -
SPN 996 Trip Fan On Time Due to a Manual Switch 
Total time the fan has been on due to manual activation by the operator (i.e., excluding time on due to automatic triggers) 
since the last trip reset. For the time to be accumulated against the manual switch, it is necessary that it be the first to 
request the fan activation or it be the only system requesting fan activation. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 0.05 hr/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 210,554,060.75 hr Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65211 
SPN 997 Trip Fan On Time Due to the A/C System 
Total time the fan has been on due to the A/C system since the last trip reset. For the time to be accumulated against the 
A/C system, it is necessary that it be the first to request the fan activation or it be the only system requesting fan 
activation.
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 0.05 hr/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 210,554,060.75 hr Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65211 
SPN 998 Trip Distance on VSL 
Total distance accumulated while the engine torque mode is road speed governing since the last trip reset. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 0.125 km/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 526,385,151.9 km Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65210 
SPN 999 Trip Gear Down Distance 
Total distance accumulated while the vehicle has operated in the gear which is one gear down from top gear and exceeds 
a calibrated minimum time (typically the time to shift the transmission) since the last trip reset. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 0.125 km/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 526,385,151.9 km Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65210 
SPN 1000 Trip Distance in Top Gear 
Total distance accumulated while the vehicle has operated in top gear for a calibrated minimum time since the last trip 
reset. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 0.125 km/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 526,385,151.9 km Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65210 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 126 -
SPN 1001 Trip Drive Fuel Used 
Total fuel consumed while the engine speed is greater than zero, vehicle speed is greater than or equal to 2 km/h, and 
neither the PTO or the remote PTO is controlling the engine power output, since the last trip reset. 
NOTE—This parameter is intended for liquid fueled engines. See SPN 1007 for alternate resolution. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 0.5 L/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 2,105,540,607.5 L Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65209 
SPN 1002 Trip PTO Governor Moving Fuel Used 
Total fuel consumed while either the PTO or remote PTO governors are in the hold state, the engine speed is greater 
than zero, and vehicle speed is greater than or equal to 2 km/h, since the last trip reset. 
NOTE—This parameter is intended for liquid fueled engines. See SPN 1008 for alternate resolution. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 0.5 L/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 2,105,540,607.5 L Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65209 
SPN 1003 Trip PTO Governor Non-moving Fuel Used 
Total fuel consumed while either the PTO or remote PTO governors are in the hold state, the engine speed is greater 
than zero, and vehicle speed is less than 2 km/h, since the last trip reset. 
NOTE—This parameter is intended for liquid fueled engines. See SPN 1009 for alternate resolution. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 0.5 L/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 2,105,540,607.5 L Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65209 
SPN 1004 Trip Vehicle Idle Fuel Used 
Total fuel consumed while neither the PTO or remote PTO governor is in the hold state, the engine speed is greater than 
zero, and vehicle speed is less than 2 km/h, since the last trip reset. 
In marine applications, this parameter is defined as the total fuel consumed while the engine speed is greater than zero, 
and less than or equal to 50 RPM greater than low idle, since the last trip reset. 
NOTE—This parameter is intended for liquid fueled engines. See SPN 1010 for alternate resolution. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 0.5 L/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 2,105,540,607.5 L Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65209 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 127 -
SPN 1005 Trip Cruise Fuel Used 
Total fuel consumed while the engine is in the cruise hold state since the last trip reset. If both cruise control and VSL 
(vehicle speed limiter) are commanding the same amount of fuel, the cruise control is deemed the active torque mode 
and fuel will be accumulated in "trip cruise fuel used" parameter. If fuel commanded due to the accelerator pedal position 
is larger than fuel commanded by cruise control (e.g., accelerator override torque mode), the cruise control is not deemed 
the active torque mode and fuel will not be accumulated in the "trip cruise fuel used" parameter. 
NOTE—This parameter is intended for liquid fueled engines. See SPN 1011 for alternate resolution. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 0.5 L/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 2,105,540,607.5 L Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65209 
SPN 1006 Trip Drive Fuel Economy 
Trip drive fuel economy is equal to the distance traveled by vehicle in the drive state (engine speed greater than zero, 
vehicle speed greater than or equal to 2 km/h, and neither the PTO or remote PTO governors are controlling engine 
power output) divided by trip drive fuel used (SPN 1001), since the last trip reset. 
NOTE—This parameter is intended for liquid fueled engines. See SPN 1012 for alternate resolution. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1/512 km/L per bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 125.5 km/L Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65209 
SPN 1007 Trip Drive Fuel Used (Gaseous) 
Total fuel consumed while the engine speed is greater than zero, vehicle speed is greater than or equal to 2 km/h, and 
neither the PTO or the remote PTO governors are controlling the engine power output, since the last trip reset. 
NOTE—This parameter is intended for gaseous fueled engines. See SPN 1001 for alternate resolution. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 0.5 kg/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 2,105,540,607.5 kg Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65208 
SPN 1008 Trip PTO Governor Moving Fuel Used (Gaseous) 
Total fuel consumed while the PTO or remote PTO governors are in the hold state, the engine speed is greater than zero, 
and vehicle speed is greater than or equal to 2 km/h, since the last trip reset. 
NOTE—This parameter is intended for gaseous fueled engines. See SPN 1002 for alternate resolution. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 0.5 kg/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 2,105,540,607.5 kg Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65208 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 128 -
SPN 1009 Trip PTO Governor Non-moving Fuel Used (Gaseous) 
Total fuel consumed while the PTO or remote PTO governors are in the hold state, the engine speed is greater than zero, 
and vehicle speed is less than to 2 km/h, since the last trip reset. 
NOTE—This parameter is intended for gaseous fueled engines. See SPN 1003 for alternate resolution. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 0.5 kg/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 2,105,540,607.5 kg Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65208 
SPN 1010 Trip Vehicle Idle Fuel Used (Gaseous) 
Total fuel consumed while neither the PTO or remote PTO governors are active, the engine speed is greater than zero, 
and vehicle speed is less than to 2 km/h, since the last trip reset. 
NOTE—This parameter is intended for gaseous fueled engines. See SPN 1004 for alternate resolution. Trip vehicle idle 
fuel while in fast idle (vehicle speed less than 2 km/h with engine speed greater than 700 rpm) shall be accumulated in 
the trip vehicle idle fuel category. All other fuel usage scenarios that do not fall directly in the categories defined shall be
accumulated in trip drive fuel used. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 0.5 kg/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 2,105,540,607.5 kg Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65208 
SPN 1011 Trip Cruise Fuel Used (Gaseous) 
Total fuel consumed while the engine is in the cruise hold state since the last trip reset. If both cruise control and VSL 
(vehicle speed limiter) are commanding the same amount of fuel, the cruise control is deemed the active torque mode 
and fuel will be accumulated in "trip cruise fuel used" parameter. If fuel commanded due to the accelerator pedal position 
is larger than fuel commanded by cruise control (e.g., accelerator override torque mode), the cruise control is not deemed 
the active torque mode and fuel will not be accumulated in the "trip cruise fuel used" parameter. 
NOTE—This parameter is intended for gaseous fueled engines. See SPN 1005 for alternate resolution. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 0.5 kg/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 2,105,540,607.5 kg Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65208 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 129 -
SPN 1012 Trip Drive Fuel Economy (Gaseous) 
Trip drive fuel economy is equal to the distance traveled by vehicle in the drive state (engine speed greater than zero, 
vehicle speed greater than or equal to 2 km/h, and neither the PTO or remote PTO governors are controlling engine 
power output) divided by trip drive fuel used (SPN 1007), since the last trip reset. 
NOTE—This parameter is intended for gaseous fueled engines. See SPN 1006 for alternate resolution. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1/512 km/kg per bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 125.5 km/kg Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65208 
SPN 1013 Trip Maximum Engine Speed 
Maximum engine speed achieved since the last trip reset. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.125 rpm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 8,031.875 rpm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65207 
SPN 1014 Trip Average Engine Speed 
Average speed of the engine since the last trip reset. 
NOTE — Excludes ignition-on time without the engine speed above zero. Includes idle, engine PTO governor (moving 
and non-moving), and drive operation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.125 rpm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 8,031.875 rpm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 1014 
PGN reference: 65207 
SPN 1015 Trip Drive Average Load Factor 
Average engine load factor while engine speed is greater than zero, vehicle speed is greater than or equal to 2 km/h, and 
both the PTO (moving/non-moving) and remote PTO governors are not in the hold state, since the last trip reset. Engine 
operation during cruise control operation is included. 
In marine applications, this parameter is defined as the average engine load factor while engine speed is greater than 
zero, since last trip reset. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65207 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 130 -
SPN 1016 Total Drive Average Load Factor 
Average engine load factor while engine speed is greater than zero, vehicle speed is greater than or equal to 2 km/h, and 
both the PTO (moving/non-moving) and remote PTO governors are not in the hold state, over the life of the engine.
Engine operation during cruise control operation is included. 
In marine applications, this parameter is defined as the average engine load factor while engine speed is greater than 
zero. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65207 
SPN 1017 Total Engine Cruise Time 
Total time that the engine has operated in the cruise hold state, excluding time in accelerator override, over the life of the 
engine.
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 0.05 hr/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 210,554,060.75 hr Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65207 
SPN 1018 Trip Maximum Vehicle Speed 
Maximum vehicle speed achieved while the engine speed is greater than zero and the accelerator pedal position (APS) is 
at a value greater than 0%, since the last trip reset. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1/256 km/h per bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250.996 km/h Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65206 
SPN 1019 Trip Cruise Distance 
Total distance that the engine has operated in the cruise hold state, excluding time in accelerator override, since the last 
trip reset. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 0.125 km/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 526,385,151.9 km Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65206 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 131 -
SPN 1020 Trip Number of Hot Shutdowns 
Total number of hot shutdowns since the last trip reset. A hot shutdown is based on operation at high load or high engine 
speed or for long operating periods without allowing the engine to cool sufficiently. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1 count/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 64,255 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65205 
SPN 1021 Trip Number of Idle Shutdowns 
Total number of times the engine has been shutdown due to idling too long (at normal idle or fast idle) since the last trip 
reset. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1 count/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 64,255 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65205 
SPN 1022 Trip Number of Idle Shutdown Overrides 
Total number of times an operator disables idle shutdown to prevent an engine shutdown, since the last trip reset. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1 count/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 64,255 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65205 
SPN 1023 Trip Sudden Decelerations 
Total number of decelerations whenever the vehicle deceleration is more than XYZ km/h/sec (where XYZ is a calibratible 
threshold), since the last trip reset. A lengthy deceleration shall be counted as one sudden deceleration. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1 count/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 64,255 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65205 
SPN 1024 Trip Time in VSL 
Total time accumulated when the engine has operated on the vehicle speed limiter (VSL) while not in the cruise hold 
state, since the last trip reset. The engine torque mode is equal to road speed governor during this operation. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 0.05 hr/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 210,554,060.75 hr Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65204 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 132 -
SPN 1025 Trip Time in Top Gear 
Total time accumulated when the vehicle has operated in top gear for a calibrated minimum time, since the last trip reset. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 0.05 hr/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 210,554,060.75 hr Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65204 
SPN 1026 Trip Time in Gear Down 
Total time accumulated when the vehicle has operated in one gear down from the top gear for a calibrated minimum time, 
since the last trip reset. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 0.05 hr/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 210,554,060.75 hr Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65204 
SPN 1027 Trip Time in Derate by Engine 
Total time accumulated when the engine final fueling has been derated due to an engine protection algorithm, since the 
last reset. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 0.05 hr/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 210,554,060.75 hr Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65204 
SPN 1028 Total Engine PTO Governor Fuel Used 
Total fuel used while the PTO or remote PTO governors are in the hold state and engine speed is above zero, over the 
life of the engine. 
NOTE—This parameter is intended for liquid fueled engines. See SPN 1030 for alternate resolution. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 0.5 L/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 2,105,540,607.5 L Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65203 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 133 -
SPN 1029 Trip Average Fuel Rate 
Average fuel rate, equal to trip fuel divided by trip time while the engine speed is above zero, since the last trip reset. This
includes idle, engine PTO governor (both moving and non-moving) and drive operation but excludes ignition-on time while 
the engine speed is at zero rpm. 
NOTE—This parameter is intended for liquid fueled engines. See SPN 1031 for alternate resolution. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.05 L/h per bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3,212.75 L/h Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65203 
SPN 1030 Total Engine PTO Governor Fuel Used (Gaseous) 
Total fuel used while the PTO or remote PTO governors are in the hold state and engine speed is above zero, over the 
life of the engine. 
NOTE—This parameter is intended for gaseous fueled engines. See SPN 1028 for alternate resolution. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 0.5 kg/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 2,105,540,607.5 kg Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65202 
SPN 1031 Trip Average Fuel Rate (Gaseous) 
Average fuel rate, equal to trip fuel divided by trip time while the engine speed is above zero, since the last trip reset. This
includes idle, engine PTO governor (both moving and non-moving) and drive operation but excludes ignition-on time while 
the engine speed is at zero rpm. 
NOTE—This parameter is intended for gaseous fueled engines. See SPN 1029 for alternate resolution. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.05 kg/h per bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3212.75 kg/h Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65202 
SPN 1032 Total ECU Distance 
Total distance accumulated over the life of the ECU. When the ECU is replaced this value shall be reset. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 0.125 km/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 526,385,151.9 km Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65201 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 134 -
SPN 1033 Total ECU Run Time 
Total time accumulated over the life of the ECU, from ignition switch ON to ignition switch OFF. When the ECU is 
replaced this value shall be reset. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 0.05 hr/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 210,554,060.75 hr Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65201 
SPN 1034 Trip Cruise Time 
Total time accumulated while the engine is in the cruise hold state, excluding time in accelerator override, since the last 
trip reset. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 0.05 hr/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 210,554,060.75 hr Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65200 
SPN 1035 Trip PTO Governor Time 
Total time accumulated while the engine is in the PTO or remote PTO governor hold state since the last trip reset. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 0.05 hr/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 210,554,060.75 hr Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65200 
SPN 1036 Trip Engine Running Time 
Total time accumulated while the engine speed is greater than zero since the last trip reset. Note that time with the 
ignition switch on but engine speed at zero is not included. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 0.05 hr/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 210,554,060.75 hr Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65200 
SPN 1037 Trip Idle Time 
Total time accumulated while the engine speed is greater than zero, both the PTO and remote PTO governors are 
inactive, and the vehicle speed is less than 2 km/h, since the last trip reset. 
In marine applications, this parameter is defined as the total time accumulated while the engine speed is greater than 
zero, and less than or equal to 50 RPM greater than low idle, since the last trip reset. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 0.05 hr/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 210,554,060.75 hr Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65200 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 135 -
SPN 1038 Trip Air Compressor On Time 
Total time that the air compressor is on and compressing air since the last trip reset. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 0.05 hr/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 210,554,060.75 hr Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65200 
SPN 1039 Trip Fuel (Gaseous) 
Total fuel consumed (trip drive fuel + trip PTO governor moving fuel + trip PTO governor non-moving fuel + trip idle fuel) 
since the last trip reset. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 0.5 kg/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 2,105,540,607.5 kg Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65199 
SPN 1040 Total Fuel Used (Gaseous) 
Total fuel consumed (trip drive fuel + trip PTO governor moving fuel + trip PTO governor non-moving fuel + trip idle fuel) 
over the life of the engine. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 0.5 kg/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 2,105,540,607.5 kg Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65199 
SPN 1081 Engine Wait to Start Lamp 
Lamp signal which indicates that the engine is too cold to start and the operator should wait until the signal becomes 
inactive (turns off). See SPN 5416 for the lamp operating condition. 
00 - Off 
01 - On 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65252 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 136 -
SPN 1082 Engine Coolant Load Increase 
Status of an event, external to the engine, that may increase the nominal temperature of the engine coolant liquid. 
00 - No coolant load increase 
01 - Coolant load increase possible 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61440 
SPN 1083 Auxiliary I/O Channel #1 
Auxiliary channel of data (16 bit) read by the ECU. This data is in A/D counts and is manufacturer specific. It may be 
configured uniquely per application. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1 count/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 64,255 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65241 
SPN 1084 Auxiliary I/O Channel #2 
Auxiliary channel of data (16 bit) read by the ECU. This data is in A/D counts and is manufacturer specific. It may be 
configured uniquely per application. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1 count/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 64,255 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65241 
SPN 1085 Intended Retarder Percent Torque 
Braking torque of retarder that the retarder is currently trying to achieve. This value takes into account all static 
limitations, but not the limitations due to the dynamic behavior of the retarder. This value, if unchanged over a certain 
time, can and will be reached by the actual retarder - percent torque (See SPN 520). 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, -125 % offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 % Operational Range: -125 to 0% 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 1085 
PGN reference: 61440 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 137 -
SPN 1086 Parking and/or Trailer Air Pressure 
The pneumatic pressure in the circuit or reservoir for the parking brake and/or the trailer supply. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 8 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 2,000 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65198 
SPN 1087 Service Brake Circuit 1 Air Pressure 
The pneumatic pressure in the primary service brake circuit or reservoir, supplying the rear axle. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 8 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 2,000 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65198 
SPN 1088 Service Brake Circuit 2 Air Pressure 
The pneumatic pressure in the secondary service brake circuit or reservoir, supplying the front axle. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 8 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 2,000 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65198 
SPN 1089 Auxiliary Equipment Supply Pressure 
The pneumatic pressure in the auxiliary circuit. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 8 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 2,000 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65198 
SPN 1090 Air Suspension Supply Pressure 
The pneumatic pressure in the circuit for the electronically controlled air suspension system. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 8 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 2,000 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65198 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 138 -
SPN 1091 Brake Application Pressure High Range, Front Axle, Left Wheel 
The brake application pressure for the left wheel on the front axle. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 5 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 1,250 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65197 
SPN 1092 Brake Application Pressure High Range, Front Axle, Right Wheel 
The brake application pressure for the right wheel on the front axle. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 5 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 1,250 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65197 
SPN 1093 Brake Application Pressure High Range, Rear Axle #1, Left Wheel 
The brake application pressure for the left wheel on the rear axle #1. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 5 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 1,250 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65197 
SPN 1094 Brake Application Pressure High Range, Rear Axle #1, Right Wheel 
The brake application pressure for the right wheel on the rear axle #1. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 5 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 1,250 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65197 
SPN 1095 Brake Application Pressure High Range, Rear Axle #2, Left Wheel 
The brake application pressure for the left wheel on the rear axle #2. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 5 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 1,250 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65197 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 139 -
SPN 1096 Brake Application Pressure High Range, Rear Axle #2, Right Wheel 
The brake application pressure for the right wheel on the rear axle #2. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 5 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 1,250 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65197 
SPN 1097 Brake Application Pressure High Range, Rear Axle #3, Left Wheel 
The brake application pressure for the left wheel on the rear axle #3. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 5 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 1,250 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65197 
SPN 1098 Brake Application Pressure High Range, Rear Axle #3, Right Wheel 
The brake application pressure for the right wheel on the rear axle #3. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 5 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 1,250 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65197 
SPN 1099 Brake Lining Remaining, Front Axle, Left Wheel 
The percentage of brake lining which can still be measured for the left wheel on the front axle. 100% represents new 
brake linings, 0% represents totally worn brake linings. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65196 
SPN 1100 Brake Lining Remaining, Front Axle, Right Wheel 
The percentage of brake lining which can still be measured for the right wheel on the front axle. 100% represents new 
brake linings, 0% represents totally worn brake linings. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65196 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 140 -
SPN 1101 Brake Lining Remaining, Rear Axle #1, Left Wheel 
The percentage of brake lining which can still be measured for the left wheel on the rear axle #1. 100% represents new 
brake linings, 0% represents totally worn brake linings. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65196 
SPN 1102 Brake Lining Remaining, Rear Axle #1, Right Wheel 
The percentage of brake lining which can still be measured for the right wheel on the rear axle #1. 100% represents new 
brake linings, 0% represents totally worn brake linings. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65196 
SPN 1103 Brake Lining Remaining, Rear Axle #2, Left Wheel 
The percentage of brake lining which can still be measured for the left wheel on the rear axle #2. 100% represents new 
brake linings, 0% represents totally worn brake linings. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65196 
SPN 1104 Brake Lining Remaining, Rear Axle #2, Right Wheel 
The percentage of brake lining which can still be measured for the right wheel on the rear axle #2. 100% represents new 
brake linings, 0% represents totally worn brake linings. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65196 
SPN 1105 Brake Lining Remaining, Rear Axle #3, Left Wheel 
The percentage of brake lining which can still be measured for the left wheel on the rear axle #3. 100% represents new 
brake linings, 0% represents totally worn brake linings. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65196 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 141 -
SPN 1106 Brake Lining Remaining, Rear Axle #3, Right Wheel 
The percentage of brake lining which can still be measured for the right wheel on the rear axle #3. 100% represents new 
brake linings, 0% represents totally worn brake linings. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65196 
SPN 1107 Engine Protection System Timer State 
Status signal which indicates the current mode of the engine protection system timer system. See Figure SPN1107_A. 
00 - Inactive 
01 - Active 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 1107 
PGN reference: 65252 
SPN 1108 Engine Protection System Timer Override 
Status signal which indicates the status of the override feature of the engine protection system timer. See Figure 
SPN1107_A.
00 - Inactive 
01 - Active 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65252 
SPN 1109 Engine Protection System Approaching Shutdown 
Status signal which indicates that engine shutdown is imminent. This engine protection signal can be a result of different 
systems failing, i.e., engine overheating. See Figure SPN1107_A. 
00 - Not approaching 
01 - Approaching 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65252 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 142 -
SPN 1110 Engine Protection System has Shutdown Engine 
Status signal which indicates whether or not the engine protection system has shutdown the engine. See Figure 
SPN1107_A.
00 - No 
01 - Yes 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65252 
SPN 1111 Engine Protection System Configuration 
Parameter which indicates the configuration of the engine shutdown system. 
00 - Disabled in calibration 
01 - Enabled in calibration 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65252 
SPN 1113 Recommended Gear 
The transmission calculates this gear continuously. In dangerous situations this gear may be selected to gain back 
vehicle control. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 gear value/bit, -125 offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 Operational Range: -125 to +125, negative values are 
reverse gears, positive values are 
forward gears, zero is neutral. 251 
(0xFB) is park. 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65195 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 143 -
SPN 1114 Lowest Possible Gear 
The transmission calculates this gear continuously. Together with the highest possible gear (see SPN 1115), it enables a 
management computer to know the exact range of available gears. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 gear value/bit, -125 offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 Operational Range: -125 to +125, negative values are 
reverse gears, positive values are 
forward gears, zero is neutral. 251 
(0xFB) is park. 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65195 
SPN 1115 Highest Possible Gear 
The transmission calculates this gear continuously. Together with the lowest possible gear (see SPN 1114), it enables a 
management computer to know the exact range of available gears. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 gear value/bit, -125 offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 Operational Range: -125 to +125, negative values are 
reverse gears, positive values are 
forward gears, zero is neutral. 251 
(0xFB) is park. 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65195 
SPN 1116 Engine Gaseous Fuel Correction Factor 
A correction to a predefined gaseous fuel energy (expressed in energy per unit volume) represented as a percentage.
The actual fuel energy used to control the engine is the product of the gaseous fuel correction factor and the energy of the 
gas.
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65194 
SPN 1117 Engine Desired Rated Exhaust Oxygen 
The desired amount of oxygen in the exhaust at rated conditions represented as a percentage by volume with respect to 
the total volume of exhaust gases leaving the engine. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.0025 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 160.6375 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65193 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 144 -
SPN 1118 Engine Desired Exhaust Oxygen 
The desired amount of oxygen in the exhaust represented as a percentage by volume with respect to the total volume of 
exhaust gases leaving the engine. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.0025 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 160.6375 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65193 
SPN 1119 Engine Actual Exhaust Oxygen 
The actual amount of oxygen in the exhaust represented as a percentage by volume with respect to the total volume of 
exhaust gases leaving the engine. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.0025 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 160.6375 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65193 
(R) SPN 1120 Articulation Angle 
Angle of deflection of an articulated transit vehicle (rotation angle about the vehicles z-axis). A right turn (clockwise) is 
indicated with a positive angle and a left turn is indicated with a negative angle. This parameter is defined according to a 
Z-Down axis system and the sign of the value is in accordance to the right-hand rule, as specified in SAE J670. As 
specified in SAE J670, a Z-Down Axis System has positive X directed forward, positive Y to the right, and positive Z 
directed down. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 deg/bit, -125 deg offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 deg Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65192 
SPN 1121 EBS Brake Switch 
Switch signal which indicates that the brake pedal is being pressed. The EBS brake switch is independent of the brake 
light switch and has no provisions for external connections. 
00 - Brake pedal is not being pressed 
01 - Brake pedal is being pressed 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61441 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 145 -
SPN 1122 Engine Alternator Bearing 1 Temperature 
Temperature of the bearing inside the alternator. Bearing 1 is the left or rear bearing. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 deg C/bit, -40 deg C offset 
Data Range: -40 to 210 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65191 
SPN 1123 Engine Alternator Bearing 2 Temperature 
Temperature of the bearing inside the alternator. Bearing 2 is the right or front bearing. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 deg C/bit, -40 deg C offset 
Data Range: -40 to 210 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65191 
SPN 1124 Engine Alternator Winding 1 Temperature 
Temperature of the windings inside the alternator. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 deg C/bit, -40 deg C offset 
Data Range: -40 to 210 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65191 
SPN 1125 Engine Alternator Winding 2 Temperature 
Temperature of the windings inside the alternator. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 deg C/bit, -40 deg C offset 
Data Range: -40 to 210 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65191 
SPN 1126 Engine Alternator Winding 3 Temperature 
Temperature of the windings inside the alternator. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 deg C/bit, -40 deg C offset 
Data Range: -40 to 210 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65191 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 146 -
SPN 1127 Engine Turbocharger 1 Boost Pressure 
Gage pressure of air measured downstream of the compressor discharge side of the turbocharger. See also SPN 102 
for alternate range and resolution. If there is only one boost pressure to report and the range and resolution in SPN 102 is 
adequate, then it should be used. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.125 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to +8031.875 kPa (0 to 1164.62 psi) Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65190 
SPN 1128 Engine Turbocharger 2 Boost Pressure 
Gage pressure of air measured downstream of the compressor discharge side of the turbocharger. See also SPN 102 
for alternate range and resolution. If there is only one boost pressure to report and the range and resolution in SPN 102
is adequate, then it should be used. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.125 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to +8031.875 kPa (0 to 1164.62 psi) Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65190 
SPN 1129 Engine Turbocharger 3 Boost Pressure 
Gage pressure of air measured downstream of the compressor discharge side of the turbocharger. See also SPN 102 
for alternate range and resolution. If there is only one boost pressure to report and the range and resolution in SPN 102 is 
adequate, then it should be used. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.125 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to +8031.875 kPa (0 to 1164.62 psi) Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65190 
SPN 1130 Engine Turbocharger 4 Boost Pressure 
Gage pressure of air measured downstream of the compressor discharge side of the turbocharger. See also SPN 102 
for alternate range and resolution. If there is only one boost pressure to report and the range and resolution in SPN 102 is 
adequate, then it should be used. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.125 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to +8031.875 kPa (0 to 1164.62 psi) Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65190 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 147 -
SPN 1131 Engine Intake Manifold 2 Temperature 
Temperature of pre-combustion air found in intake manifold of engine air supply system. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 deg C/bit, -40 deg C offset 
Data Range: -40 to 210 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65189 
SPN 1132 Engine Intake Manifold 3 Temperature 
Temperature of pre-combustion air found in intake manifold of engine air supply system. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 deg C/bit, -40 deg C offset 
Data Range: -40 to 210 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65189 
SPN 1133 Engine Intake Manifold 4 Temperature 
Temperature of pre-combustion air found in intake manifold of engine air supply system. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 deg C/bit, -40 deg C offset 
Data Range: -40 to 210 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65189 
SPN 1134 Engine Intercooler Thermostat Opening 
The current position of the thermostat used to regulate the temperature of the engine intercooler. A value of 0% 
represents the thermostat being completely closed and 100% represents the thermostat being completely open. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65262 
SPN 1135 Engine Oil Temperature 2 
Temperature of the engine lubricant. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65188 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 148 -
SPN 1136 Engine ECU Temperature 
Temperature of the engine electronic control unit. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65188 
SPN 1137 Engine Exhaust Gas Port 1 Temperature 
Temperature at the cylinder exhaust port of the engine. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65187 
SPN 1138 Engine Exhaust Gas Port 2 Temperature 
Temperature at the cylinder exhaust port of the engine. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65187 
SPN 1139 Engine Exhaust Gas Port 3 Temperature 
Temperature at the cylinder exhaust port of the engine. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65187 
SPN 1140 Engine Exhaust Gas Port 4 Temperature 
Temperature at the cylinder exhaust port of the engine. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65187 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 149 -
SPN 1141 Engine Exhaust Gas Port 5 Temperature 
Temperature at the cylinder exhaust port of the engine. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65186 
SPN 1142 Engine Exhaust Gas Port 6 Temperature 
Temperature at the cylinder exhaust port of the engine. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65186 
SPN 1143 Engine Exhaust Gas Port 7 Temperature 
Temperature at the cylinder exhaust port of the engine. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65186 
SPN 1144 Engine Exhaust Gas Port 8 Temperature 
Temperature at the cylinder exhaust port of the engine. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65186 
SPN 1145 Engine Exhaust Gas Port 9 Temperature 
Temperature at the cylinder exhaust port of the engine. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65185 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 150 -
SPN 1146 Engine Exhaust Gas Port 10 Temperature 
Temperature at the cylinder exhaust port of the engine. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65185 
SPN 1147 Engine Exhaust Gas Port 11 Temperature 
Temperature at the cylinder exhaust port of the engine. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65185 
SPN 1148 Engine Exhaust Gas Port 12 Temperature 
Temperature at the cylinder exhaust port of the engine. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65185 
SPN 1149 Engine Exhaust Gas Port 13 Temperature 
Temperature at the cylinder exhaust port of the engine. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65184 
SPN 1150 Engine Exhaust Gas Port 14 Temperature 
Temperature at the cylinder exhaust port of the engine. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65184 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 151 -
SPN 1151 Engine Exhaust Gas Port 15 Temperature 
Temperature at the cylinder exhaust port of the engine. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65184 
SPN 1152 Engine Exhaust Gas Port 16 Temperature 
Temperature at the cylinder exhaust port of the engine. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65184 
SPN 1153 Engine Exhaust Gas Port 17 Temperature 
Temperature at the cylinder exhaust port of the engine. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65183 
SPN 1154 Engine Exhaust Gas Port 18 Temperature 
Temperature at the cylinder exhaust port of the engine. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65183 
SPN 1155 Engine Exhaust Gas Port 19 Temperature 
Temperature at the cylinder exhaust port of the engine. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65183 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 152 -
SPN 1156 Engine Exhaust Gas Port 20 Temperature 
Temperature at the cylinder exhaust port of the engine. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65183 
SPN 1157 Engine Main Bearing 1 Temperature 
Temperature of the main bearing which supports the crankshaft of the engine. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65182 
SPN 1158 Engine Main Bearing 2 Temperature 
Temperature of the main bearing which supports the crankshaft of the engine. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65182 
SPN 1159 Engine Main Bearing 3 Temperature 
Temperature of the main bearing which supports the crankshaft of the engine. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65182 
SPN 1160 Engine Main Bearing 4 Temperature 
Temperature of the main bearing which supports the crankshaft of the engine. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65182 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 153 -
SPN 1161 Engine Main Bearing 5 Temperature 
Temperature of the main bearing which supports the crankshaft of the engine. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65181 
SPN 1162 Engine Main Bearing 6 Temperature 
Temperature of the main bearing which supports the crankshaft of the engine. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65181 
SPN 1163 Engine Main Bearing 7 Temperature 
Temperature of the main bearing which supports the crankshaft of the engine. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65181 
SPN 1164 Engine Main Bearing 8 Temperature 
Temperature of the main bearing which supports the crankshaft of the engine. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65181 
SPN 1165 Engine Main Bearing 9 Temperature 
Temperature of the main bearing which supports the crankshaft of the engine. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65180 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 154 -
SPN 1166 Engine Main Bearing 10 Temperature 
Temperature of the main bearing which supports the crankshaft of the engine. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65180 
SPN 1167 Engine Main Bearing 11 Temperature 
Temperature of the main bearing which supports the crankshaft of the engine. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65180 
SPN 1168 Engine Turbocharger Lube Oil Pressure 2 
Gage pressure of oil in turbocharger lubrication system. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 4 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 1000 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65179 
SPN 1169 Engine Turbocharger 2 Speed 
Rotational velocity of rotor in the turbocharger. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 4 rpm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 257,020 rpm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65179 
SPN 1170 Engine Turbocharger 3 Speed 
Rotational velocity of rotor in the turbocharger. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 4 rpm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 257,020 rpm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65179 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 155 -
SPN 1171 Engine Turbocharger 4 Speed 
Rotational velocity of rotor in the turbocharger. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 4 rpm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 257,020 rpm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65179 
SPN 1172 Engine Turbocharger 1 Compressor Intake Temperature 
Temperature of the air entering the compressor side of the turbocharger. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65178 
SPN 1173 Engine Turbocharger 2 Compressor Intake Temperature 
Temperature of the air entering the compressor side of the turbocharger. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65178 
SPN 1174 Engine Turbocharger 3 Compressor Intake Temperature 
Temperature of the air entering the compressor side of the turbocharger. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65178 
SPN 1175 Engine Turbocharger 4 Compressor Intake Temperature 
Temperature of the air entering the compressor side of the turbocharger. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65178 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 156 -
SPN 1176 Engine Turbocharger 1 Compressor Intake Pressure 
Gage pressure of the air entering the compressor side of the turbocharger. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1/128 kPa/bit, -250 kPa offset 
Data Range: -250 kPa TO 251.99 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65177 
SPN 1177 Engine Turbocharger 2 Compressor Intake Pressure 
Gage pressure of the air entering the compressor side of the turbocharger. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1/128 kPa/bit, -250 kPa offset 
Data Range: -250 kPa TO 251.99 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65177 
SPN 1178 Engine Turbocharger 3 Compressor Intake Pressure 
Gage pressure of the air entering the compressor side of the turbocharger. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1/128 kPa/bit, -250 kPa offset 
Data Range: -250 kPa TO 251.99 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65177 
SPN 1179 Engine Turbocharger 4 Compressor Intake Pressure 
Gage pressure of the air entering the compressor side of the turbocharger. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1/128 kPa/bit, -250 kPa offset 
Data Range: -250 kPa TO 251.99 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65177 
SPN 1180 Engine Turbocharger 1 Turbine Intake Temperature 
Temperature of the combustion by-products entering the turbine side of the turbocharger. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65176 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 157 -
SPN 1181 Engine Turbocharger 2 Turbine Intake Temperature 
Temperature of the combustion by-products entering the turbine side of the turbocharger. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65176 
SPN 1182 Engine Turbocharger 3 Turbine Intake Temperature 
Temperature of the combustion by-products entering the turbine side of the turbocharger. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65176 
SPN 1183 Engine Turbocharger 4 Turbine Intake Temperature 
Temperature of the combustion by-products entering the turbine side of the turbocharger. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65176 
SPN 1184 Engine Turbocharger 1 Turbine Outlet Temperature 
Temperature of the combustion by-products exiting the turbine side of the turbocharger. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65175 
SPN 1185 Engine Turbocharger 2 Turbine Outlet Temperature 
Temperature of the combustion by-products exiting the turbine side of the turbocharger. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65175 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 158 -
SPN 1186 Engine Turbocharger 3 Turbine Outlet Temperature 
Temperature of the combustion by-products exiting the turbine side of the turbocharger. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65175 
SPN 1187 Engine Turbocharger 4 Turbine Outlet Temperature 
Temperature of the combustion by-products exiting the turbine side of the turbocharger. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65175 
SPN 1188 Engine Turbocharger Wastegate Actuator 1 Position 
Position of the wastegate drive. A value of 0% represents fully closed and a value of 100% represents fully open. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65174 
SPN 1189 Engine Turbocharger Wastegate Actuator 2 Position 
Position of the wastegate drive. A value of 0% represents fully closed and a value of 100% represents fully open. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65174 
SPN 1190 Engine Turbocharger Wastegate Actuator 3 Position 
Position of the wastegate drive. A value of 0% represents fully closed and a value of 100% represents fully open. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65174 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 159 -
SPN 1191 Engine Turbocharger Wastegate Actuator 4 Position 
Position of the wastegate drive. A value of 0% represents fully closed and a value of 100% represents fully open. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65174 
SPN 1192 Engine Turbocharger Wastegate Actuator Control Air Pressure 
Gage pressure of the air used to control the actuator which opens and closes the wastegate valve. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 4 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 1000 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65174 
SPN 1193 Engine Operation Time Since Rebuild 
The time in engine operation since the last engine rebuild. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 1 s/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 4,211,081,215 s Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65173 
SPN 1194 Anti-theft Encryption Seed Present Indicator 
Indicates the presence of the encryption seed random number. 
00 - Random number is not present 
01 - Random number is present 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 56320 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 160 -
SPN 1195 Anti-theft Password Valid Indicator 
Indicates the presence of a validated password. 
00 - Password is not a validated password 
01 - Password is a validated password 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 56320 
SPN 1196 Anti-theft Component Status States 
Indicates whether or not the component can be started.
00 Unlocked 
01 Locked 
10 Blocked 
11 Not defined 
00b - Unlocked = This state indicates that the component can be started without the end user being required to enter a 
password.
01b - Locked = This state indicates that the component can NOT be started (i.e., Unlocked) without the end user being 
required to enter a password. 
10b - Blocked = This state indicates that a Lock or Unlock command cannot be executed because some other algorithm 
or command of higher priority is commanding differently. 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 56320 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 161 -
SPN 1197 Anti-theft Modify Password States 
This parameter is used to indicate whether a password request was successfully performed, or if the request could not be 
perform due to system constraints or if the request was not a valid request.
00 Ok 
01 Full_of_Passwords 
10 Empty_of_Passwords 
11 Not_valid 
00b - Ok = This state indicates that the request was successfully performed. 
01b - Full_Of_Passwords = This state indicates that the component can NOT store any additional passwords in its 
memory.
10b - Empty_Of_Passwords = This state indicates that the component would be empty of passwords (an unacceptable 
condition) if the password under which the end user is logged in, is deleted. Thus the delete password command is not 
successfully executed. 
Note that if the Delete_Password command is sent to a component that does not currently have a password the 
Empty_Of_Passwords state indicator shall be used. 
11b - Not_Valid = This state indicates that the request is not a valid one. 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 56320 
SPN 1198 Anti-theft Random Number 
A seven byte random numeric code provided by the component in response to an anti-theft request. This parameter is 
sent as a numeric value utilizing the full range of 0 to 0xFFFFFFFFFFFFFF. The most significant byte is sent first, not 
following the rules of Table 1. 
Data Length: 7 bytes 
Resolution: ASCII, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 255 per byte Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 56320 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 162 -
SPN 1199 Anti-theft Encryption Indicator States 
This parameter is used to indicate if a random number seed is being requested, or if an encrypted password is being 
provided to the component.
00 Encryption_Seed_Request 
01 Encrypted_Code_Present 
10 Not defined 
11 Not_Available 
00b - Encryption_Seed_Request = This state represents a request to the component to provide a random number seed. 
01b - Encrypted_Code_Present = This state is used to indicate that an encrypted password is being provided to the 
component.
11b - Not_Available = This state is used to indicate that a random number is NOT being requested nor is an encrypted 
password being provided to the component. 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 56576 
SPN 1200 Anti-theft Desired Exit Mode States 
This parameter is used to specify the desired triggers that are to be used by the component in deciding when to transition 
to the Locked state.
00 Lock_Upon_Operator_Request 
01 Lock_When_Key_Off 
10 Not defined 
11 Not_Available 
00b - Lock_Upon_Operator_Request—This state is used to indicate that the end user would have to manually enter a 
password to Lock the engine. 
01b - Lock_When_Keyoff—This state is used to indicate that the component would automatically transition to the Locked 
state when the end user turns off the engine (i.e. without the end user being required to manually enter the password). 
11b - Not_Available—This state is indicates that the option is not selectable or changeable by the operator via using 
current tool. 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 56576 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 163 -
SPN 1201 Anti-theft Command States 
This parameter is used to identify the specific requests being sent to the component.
000 Add_Password 
001 Delete_Password 
010 Change_Password 
011 Lock_or_Unlock 
100 Check_Status 
101 Login 
110-111 Not defined 
000b - Add_Password—This state represents a request to the component to add a password to the list of passwords that 
the component has stored as valid codes. This command will not be performed if the component has already stored, the 
maximum number of passwords that it is capable of storing. The Login command must precede this command. 
001b - Delete_Password—This state represents a request to the component to delete the password (the same one used 
when the end-user logged in). See SPN 1197 for limitations. 
010b - Change_Password—This state represents a request to the component to change the password (the same one that 
the end-user logged in with) to a different password, which is to be specified by the end user. The Login command must 
precede this command. 
011b - Lock_Or_Unlock—This state represents a request to the component to change from the Locked state to the 
Unlocked state or from the Unlocked state to the Locked state. 
100b - Check_Status—This state represents a request to check to see if the component is in the Locked or Unlocked 
state.
101b - Login—This state represents a request to validate the end user, before performing commands such as 
Add_Password and Change_Password. 
Data Length: 3 bits 
Resolution: 8 states/3 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 7 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 56576 
SPN 1202 Anti-theft Password Representation 
This parameter is the seven byte numeric code (i.e., ‘encrypted password’ or ‘key’) that is generated based on the 
encryption algorithm, the password supplied by the end user, and the random number seed given by the component.
This parameter is sent as a numeric value utilizing the full range of 0 to 0xFFFFFFFFFFFFFF. The most significant byte 
is sent first, not following the rules of Table 1. 
Data Length: 7 bytes 
Resolution: ASCII, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 255 per byte Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 56576 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 164 -
SPN 1203 Engine Auxiliary Coolant Pressure 
Gage pressure of coolant found in the intercooler which is located after the turbocharger. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 4 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 1000 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65172 
SPN 1204 Electrical Load 
Electrical power delivered by the engine to the electrical system connected to the generator. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.5 kW/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 32,127.5 kW Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65171 
SPN 1205 Safety Wire Status 
Status signal which indicates that the safety wire has been activated. When the safety wire is activated, the engine will 
not operate. This is used for maintenance purposes. 
00 - Safety wire has not been activated 
01 - Safety wire has been activated 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65171 
SPN 1206 Engine Turning Gear Engaged 
Status signal which indicates that the turning gear is engaged. The turning gear is used to turn the flywheel/crankshaft, 
for maintenance purposes, while the engine is not running. 
00 - Not engaged 
01 - Engaged 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 165 -
SPN 1207 Engine ECU Temperature (OBSOLETE use SPN 1136) 
Temperature of the engine electronic control unit. 
(21, 1207 are not to be used - obsolete) 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 
SPN 1208 Engine Pre-filter Oil Pressure 
Gage pressure of the engine oil before the oil reaches the oil filter. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 4 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 1000 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65170 
SPN 1209 Engine Exhaust Gas Pressure 
Gage pressure of the exhaust gasses as measured at the turbine intake of the turbocharger. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1/128 kPa/bit, -250 kPa offset 
Data Range: -250 kPa TO 251.99 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 64739 
PGN reference: 65170 
SPN 1210 Engine Fuel Rack Position 
Measured position of the engine fuel rack. A value of 0% rack represents no fueling and a value of 100% rack represents 
maximum fueling. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65170 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 166 -
SPN 1211 Engine Build Hours Reset 
Command signal used to reset the engine rebuild hours. 
00 Do not reset 
01 Reset 
10 Reserved 
11 Take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 56832 
SPN 1212 Engine Auxiliary Coolant Temperature 
Temperature of coolant found in the intercooler which is located after the turbocharger. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 deg C/bit, -40 deg C offset 
Data Range: -40 to 210 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65172 
SPN 1237 Engine Shutdown Override Switch 
Switch signal which indicates the position of the engine shutdown override switch. This switch function allows the 
operator to override an impending engine shutdown. 
00 - Off 
01 - On 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65265 
SPN 1238 Traction Control Override Switch 
Switch signal which indicates the position of the traction control override switch. The traction control override signal 
disables the automatic traction control function allowing the wheels to spin. 
00 - Off 
01 - On 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available or not installed 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61441 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 167 -
SPN 1239 Engine Fuel Leakage 1 
Status signal which indicates fuel leakage in the fuel rail of the engine. Location can be either before or after the fuel 
pump.
00 - no leakage detected 
01 - leakage detected 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65169 
SPN 1240 Engine Fuel Leakage 2 
Status signal which indicates fuel leakage in the fuel rail of the engine. Location can be either before or after the fuel 
pump.
00 - no leakage detected 
01 - leakage detected 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65169 
SPN 1241 Engine Gas Mass Flow Rate 1 
Gas mass flow rate delivered to an engine through its first fuel control system. See SPN 3467 for the second fuel control 
system. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.05 kg/h per bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3212.75 kg/h Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65170 
SPN 1242 Instantaneous Estimated Brake Power 
Estimate of the power developed by the engine. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.5 kW/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 32,127.5 kW Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65170 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 168 -
SPN 1243 ABS Fully Operational 
Signal which indicates whether an ABS system is fully operational or whether its functionality is reduced by a defect or by 
an intended action (e.g., by activation of an ABS-off-road switch or during special diagnostic procedures). There are 
cases where the signal is necessary to fulfill legal regulations for special applications (e.g., switching off integrated 
retarders). 
00 - Not Fully Operational 
01 - Fully Operational 
10 - Reserved 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61441 
SPN 1244 Engine Fuel Actuator 2 Control Command 
The control command to fuel actuator 2, normalized to percent, where 0% represents fully closed and 100% represents 
fully open. Typically, this fuel actuator is used to regulate low pressure natural gas flow rate, mixing into the air flow, 
which together then come into the engine. Using the standard convention for determining the position. Left/front is #1 
(SPN 633) and right/rear is #2. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.0025 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 160.6375 % Operational Range: 0 to 100% 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61466 
SPN 1246 Number of Engine Torque History Records 
Number of torque history records contained in the engine torque history PGN. A value of 0 is broadcast if no torque 
history records are stored in the ECU. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 record/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 records Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65168 
SPN 1247 Engine Power 
Advertised engine power capability. Advertised power is what a customer will find on a sales sheet for an engine with a 
certain calibration. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.5 kW/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 32,127.5 kW Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65168 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 169 -
SPN 1248 Engine Peak Torque 1 
Maximum torque output of the current ECU calibration when the engine operates on torque curve 1. For calibrations that 
support two torque curves, this parameter shall be assigned the value of the lower curve. For calibrations that support 
only one curve, this parameter should be used. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1 Nm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 64,255 Nm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65168 
SPN 1249 Engine Peak Torque 2 
Maximum torque output of the current ECU calibration when the engine operates on torque curve 2. For calibrations that 
support two torque curves, this parameter shall be assigned the value of the higher curve. For calibrations that support 
only one curve, this parameter should to set to “not available”. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1 Nm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 64,255 Nm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65168 
SPN 1250 Calibration Record Start Month 
Calendar month timestamp when an ECU record was established. 
NOTE - A value of 0 for the month is null. The value 1 identifies January; 2 identifies February; etc. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 month/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 months Operational Range: 1 to 12 month 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65168 
SPN 1251 Calibration Record Start Day 
Calendar day timestamp when an ECU record was established. 
NOTE - A value of 0 for the date is null. The values 1, 2, 3, and 4 are used to identify the first day of the month; 5, 6, 7, 
and 8 identify the second day of the month; etc. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.25 days/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 62.5 days Operational Range: 0.25 to 31.75 day 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65168 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 170 -
SPN 1252 Calibration Record Start Year 
Calendar year timestamp when an ECU record was established. 
NOTE - A value of 0 for the year identifies the year 1985; a value of 1 identifies 1986; etc. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 year/bit, 1985 years offset 
Data Range: 1985 to 2235 years Operational Range: 1985 to 2235 year 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65168 
SPN 1253 Calibration Record Duration Time 
Duration in hours for which the engine operated in the conditions captured in the current record. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 0.05 hr/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 210,554,060.75 hr Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65168 
SPN 1254 Torque Limiting Feature Status 
Status of an ECU feature which limits the torque output of the engine.
00 - Disabled 
01 - Enabled 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65168 
SPN 1255 Transmission Gear Ratio 1 
Gear ratio value stored in the ECU that is used to define a range of transmission gears for which a limit is applied to the 
engine output torque. Transmission gear ratio 1 should be the numerically highest transmission gear ratio breakpoint that 
defines ratio ranges for torque limits. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.01/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 642.55 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65168 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 171 -
SPN 1256 Engine Torque Limit 1, Transmission 
Limit applied to the engine output torque during vehicle operation in transmission gear ratios numerically greater than 
transmission gear ratio 1 (see SPN 1255). 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1 Nm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 64,255 Nm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65168 
SPN 1257 Transmission Gear Ratio 2 
Gear ratio value stored in the ECU that is used to define a range of transmission gears for which a limit is applied to the 
engine output torque. Transmission gear ratio 2 should be the numerically highest transmission gear ratio breakpoint less 
than transmission gear ratio 1 (see SPN 1255) that defines ratio ranges for torque limits. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.01/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 642.55 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65168 
SPN 1258 Engine Torque Limit 2, Transmission 
Limit applied to the engine output torque during vehicle operation in transmission gear ratios numerically less than or 
equal to transmission gear ratio 1 (see SPN 1255) and numerically greater than transmission gear ratio 2 (see.SPN 
1257). For example, with transmission gear ratio 1 equal to 12.0:1 and transmission gear ratio 2 equal to 5.0:1, vehicle 
operation in a transmission gear with a ratio of 6.0:1 will result in the application of engine torque limit 2, transmission. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1 Nm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 64,255 Nm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65168 
SPN 1259 Transmission Gear Ratio 3 
Gear ratio value stored in the ECU that is used to define a range of transmission gears for which a limit is applied to the 
engine output torque. Transmission gear ratio 3 should be the numerically highest transmission gear ratio breakpoint less 
than transmission gear ratio 2 (see SPN 1257) that defines ratio ranges for torque limits. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.01/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 642.55 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65168 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 172 -
SPN 1260 Engine Torque Limit 3, Transmission 
Limit applied to the engine output torque during vehicle operation in transmission gear ratios numerically less than or 
equal to transmission gear ratio 2 (see SPN 1257) and numerically greater than transmission gear ratio 3 (see.SPN 
1259). For example, with transmission gear ratio 2 equal to 5.0:1 and transmission gear ratio 3 equal to 2.0:1, vehicle 
operation in a transmission gear with a ratio of 3.0:1 will result in the application of engine torque limit 3, transmission. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1 Nm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 64,255 Nm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65168 
SPN 1261 Engine Torque Limit 4, Transmission 
Limit applied to the engine output torque during vehicle operation in transmission gear ratios numerically less than or 
equal to transmission gear ratio 3 (see SPN 1259). 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1 Nm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 64,255 Nm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65168 
SPN 1262 Engine Torque Limit 5, Switch 
Limit applied to the engine output torque based on activation of an ECU switch input. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1 Nm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 64,255 Nm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65168 
SPN 1263 Engine Torque Limit 6, Axle Input 
Limit applied to the engine output torque based on the maximum allowable axle input torque. Axle input torque is 
calculated as the current engine torque output multiplied by the transmission gear ratio. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 2 Nm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 128,510 Nm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65168 
SPN 1264 Engine Extended Crankcase Blow-by Pressure - duplicate (see SPN 22) 
Differential crankcase blow-by pressure as measured through a tube with a venturi. 
(1264 not to be used – obsolete) 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.05 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 12.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 173 -
SPN 1294 Engine Spark Plug 1 
The measured voltage of the spark event on Cylinder #1 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1 V/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 64,255 Volts Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64887 
SPN 1295 Engine Spark Plug 2 
The measured voltage of the spark event on Cylinder #2 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1 V/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 64,255 Volts Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64887 
SPN 1296 Engine Spark Plug 3 
The measured voltage of the spark event on Cylinder #3 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1 V/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 64,255 Volts Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64887 
SPN 1297 Engine Spark Plug 4 
The measured voltage of the spark event on Cylinder #4 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1 V/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 64,255 Volts Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64887 
SPN 1298 Engine Spark Plug 5 
The measured voltage of the spark event on Cylinder #5 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1 V/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 64,255 Volts Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64886 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 174 -
SPN 1299 Engine Spark Plug 6 
The measured voltage of the spark event on Cylinder #6 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1 V/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 64,255 Volts Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64886 
SPN 1300 Engine Spark Plug 7 
The measured voltage of the spark event on Cylinder #7 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1 V/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 64,255 Volts Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64886 
SPN 1301 Engine Spark Plug 8 
The measured voltage of the spark event on Cylinder #8 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1 V/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 64,255 Volts Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64886 
SPN 1302 Engine Spark Plug 9 
The measured voltage of the spark event on Cylinder #9 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1 V/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 64,255 Volts Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64885 
SPN 1303 Engine Spark Plug 10 
The measured voltage of the spark event on Cylinder #10 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1 V/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 64,255 Volts Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64885 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 175 -
SPN 1304 Engine Spark Plug 11 
The measured voltage of the spark event on Cylinder #11 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1 V/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 64,255 Volts Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64885 
SPN 1305 Engine Spark Plug 12 
The measured voltage of the spark event on Cylinder #12 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1 V/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 64,255 Volts Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64885 
SPN 1306 Engine Spark Plug 13 
The measured voltage of the spark event on Cylinder #13 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1 V/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 64,255 Volts Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64884 
SPN 1307 Engine Spark Plug 14 
The measured voltage of the spark event on Cylinder #14 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1 V/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 64,255 Volts Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64884 
SPN 1308 Engine Spark Plug 15 
The measured voltage of the spark event on Cylinder #15 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1 V/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 64,255 Volts Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64884 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 176 -
SPN 1309 Engine Spark Plug 16 
The measured voltage of the spark event on Cylinder #16 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1 V/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 64,255 Volts Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64884 
SPN 1310 Engine Spark Plug 17 
The measured voltage of the spark event on Cylinder #17 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1 V/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 64,255 Volts Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64883 
SPN 1311 Engine Spark Plug 18 
The measured voltage of the spark event on Cylinder #18 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1 V/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 64,255 Volts Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64883 
SPN 1312 Engine Spark Plug 19 
The measured voltage of the spark event on Cylinder #19 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1 V/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 64,255 Volts Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64883 
SPN 1313 Engine Spark Plug 20 
The measured voltage of the spark event on Cylinder #20 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1 V/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 64,255 Volts Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64883 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 177 -
SPN 1314 Engine Spark Plug 21 
The measured voltage of the spark event on Cylinder #21 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1 V/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 64,255 Volts Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64882 
SPN 1315 Engine Spark Plug 22 
The measured voltage of the spark event on Cylinder #22 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1 V/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 64,255 Volts Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64882 
SPN 1316 Engine Spark Plug 23 
The measured voltage of the spark event on Cylinder #23 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1 V/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 64,255 Volts Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64882 
SPN 1317 Engine Spark Plug 24 
The measured voltage of the spark event on Cylinder #24 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1 V/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 64,255 Volts Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64882 
SPN 1320 Engine External Shutdown Air Supply Pressure 
Pressure of the air used to shut off the fuel supply to the engine. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.5 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 32,127.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65167 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 178 -
SPN 1349 Engine Injector Metering Rail 2 Pressure 
The gage pressure of fuel in the metering rail #2 as delivered from the supply pump to the injector metering intake. See 
Figure SPN16_A for fuel system related parameters. Although the figure does not show rail #2 it does show the 
relationship of rail pressure to other signals. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1/256 MPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 251 MPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65243 
SPN 1350 Time Since Last Service 
The vehicle operation time since the last service was performed. The type of service information is identified by the 
service component identification number. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1 hr/bit, -32,127 hr offset 
Data Range: -32,127 to 32,128 hr Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65166 
SPN 1351 Air Compressor Status 
Indicates whether the air compressor is actively compressing air.
00 Compressor not active 
01 Compressor active 
10 Error indicator 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65198 
SPN 1352 Engine Cylinder 1 Knock Level 
Used to indicate the level of knock for engine cylinder 1. The level of knock is reported using a relative scale where 0% is 
least level of knock, and increasing levels indicate more knock until 100% indicates the most severe level of knock 
allowed or measurable for the engine. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 % Operational Range: 0 to 100% 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61463 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 179 -
SPN 1353 Engine Cylinder 2 Knock Level 
Used to indicate the level of knock for engine cylinder 2. The level of knock is reported using a relative scale where 0% is 
least level of knock, and increasing levels indicate more knock until 100% indicates the most severe level of knock 
allowed or measurable for the engine. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61463 
SPN 1354 Engine Cylinder 3 Knock Level 
Used to indicate the level of knock for engine cylinder 3. The level of knock is reported using a relative scale where 0% is 
least level of knock, and increasing levels indicate more knock until 100% indicates the most severe level of knock 
allowed or measurable for the engine. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61463 
SPN 1355 Engine Cylinder 4 Knock Level 
Used to indicate the level of knock for engine cylinder 4. The level of knock is reported using a relative scale where 0% is 
least level of knock, and increasing levels indicate more knock until 100% indicates the most severe level of knock 
allowed or measurable for the engine. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61463 
SPN 1356 Engine Cylinder 5 Knock Level 
Used to indicate the level of knock for engine cylinder 5. The level of knock is reported using a relative scale where 0% is 
least level of knock, and increasing levels indicate more knock until 100% indicates the most severe level of knock 
allowed or measurable for the engine. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61463 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 180 -
SPN 1357 Engine Cylinder 6 Knock Level 
Used to indicate the level of knock for engine cylinder 6. The level of knock is reported using a relative scale where 0% is 
least level of knock, and increasing levels indicate more knock until 100% indicates the most severe level of knock 
allowed or measurable for the engine. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61463 
SPN 1358 Engine Cylinder 7 Knock Level 
Used to indicate the level of knock for engine cylinder 7. The level of knock is reported using a relative scale where 0% is 
least level of knock, and increasing levels indicate more knock until 100% indicates the most severe level of knock 
allowed or measurable for the engine. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61463 
SPN 1359 Engine Cylinder 8 Knock Level 
Used to indicate the level of knock for engine cylinder 8. The level of knock is reported using a relative scale where 0% is 
least level of knock, and increasing levels indicate more knock until 100% indicates the most severe level of knock 
allowed or measurable for the engine. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61463 
SPN 1360 Engine Cylinder 9 Knock Level 
Used to indicate the level of knock for engine cylinder 9. The level of knock is reported using a relative scale where 0% is 
least level of knock, and increasing levels indicate more knock until 100% indicates the most severe level of knock 
allowed or measurable for the engine. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61464 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 181 -
SPN 1361 Engine Cylinder 10 Knock Level 
Used to indicate the level of knock for engine cylinder 10. The level of knock is reported using a relative scale where 0% 
is least level of knock, and increasing levels indicate more knock until 100% indicates the most severe level of knock 
allowed or measurable for the engine. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61464 
SPN 1362 Engine Cylinder 11 Knock Level 
Used to indicate the level of knock for engine cylinder 11. The level of knock is reported using a relative scale where 0% 
is least level of knock, and increasing levels indicate more knock until 100% indicates the most severe level of knock 
allowed or measurable for the engine. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61464 
SPN 1363 Engine Cylinder 12 Knock Level 
Used to indicate the level of knock for engine cylinder 12. The level of knock is reported using a relative scale where 0% 
is least level of knock, and increasing levels indicate more knock until 100% indicates the most severe level of knock 
allowed or measurable for the engine. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61464 
SPN 1364 Engine Cylinder 13 Knock Level 
Used to indicate the level of knock for engine cylinder 13. The level of knock is reported using a relative scale where 0% 
is least level of knock, and increasing levels indicate more knock until 100% indicates the most severe level of knock 
allowed or measurable for the engine. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61464 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 182 -
SPN 1365 Engine Cylinder 14 Knock Level 
Used to indicate the level of knock for engine cylinder 14. The level of knock is reported using a relative scale where 0% 
is least level of knock, and increasing levels indicate more knock until 100% indicates the most severe level of knock 
allowed or measurable for the engine. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61464 
SPN 1366 Engine Cylinder 15 Knock Level 
Used to indicate the level of knock for engine cylinder 15. The level of knock is reported using a relative scale where 0% 
is least level of knock, and increasing levels indicate more knock until 100% indicates the most severe level of knock 
allowed or measurable for the engine. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61464 
SPN 1367 Engine Cylinder 16 Knock Level 
Used to indicate the level of knock for engine cylinder 16. The level of knock is reported using a relative scale where 0% 
is least level of knock, and increasing levels indicate more knock until 100% indicates the most severe level of knock 
allowed or measurable for the engine. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61464 
SPN 1368 Engine Cylinder 17 Knock Level 
Used to indicate the level of knock for engine cylinder 17. The level of knock is reported using a relative scale where 0% 
is least level of knock, and increasing levels indicate more knock until 100% indicates the most severe level of knock 
allowed or measurable for the engine. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61465 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 183 -
SPN 1369 Engine Cylinder 18 Knock Level 
Used to indicate the level of knock for engine cylinder 18. The level of knock is reported using a relative scale where 0% 
is least level of knock, and increasing levels indicate more knock until 100% indicates the most severe level of knock 
allowed or measurable for the engine. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61465 
SPN 1370 Engine Cylinder 19 Knock Level 
Used to indicate the level of knock for engine cylinder 19. The level of knock is reported using a relative scale where 0% 
is least level of knock, and increasing levels indicate more knock until 100% indicates the most severe level of knock 
allowed or measurable for the engine. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61465 
SPN 1371 Engine Cylinder 20 Knock Level 
Used to indicate the level of knock for engine cylinder 20. The level of knock is reported using a relative scale where 0% 
is least level of knock, and increasing levels indicate more knock until 100% indicates the most severe level of knock 
allowed or measurable for the engine. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61465 
SPN 1372 Engine Cylinder 21 Knock Level 
Used to indicate the level of knock for engine cylinder 21. The level of knock is reported using a relative scale where 0% 
is least level of knock, and increasing levels indicate more knock until 100% indicates the most severe level of knock 
allowed or measurable for the engine. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61465 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 184 -
SPN 1373 Engine Cylinder 22 Knock Level 
Used to indicate the level of knock for engine cylinder 22. The level of knock is reported using a relative scale where 0% 
is least level of knock, and increasing levels indicate more knock until 100% indicates the most severe level of knock 
allowed or measurable for the engine. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61465 
SPN 1374 Engine Cylinder 23 Knock Level 
Used to indicate the level of knock for engine cylinder 23. The level of knock is reported using a relative scale where 0% 
is least level of knock, and increasing levels indicate more knock until 100% indicates the most severe level of knock 
allowed or measurable for the engine. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61465 
SPN 1375 Engine Cylinder 24 Knock Level 
Used to indicate the level of knock for engine cylinder 24. The level of knock is reported using a relative scale where 0% 
is least level of knock, and increasing levels indicate more knock until 100% indicates the most severe level of knock 
allowed or measurable for the engine. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61465 
SPN 1377 Engine Synchronization Switch 
This is the On/Off operation of the Multiple Unit Synchronization functionality. When it is enabled (i.e. On) the master 
engine will synchronize one or more slave engines to operate at the same speed. This switch position indicates whether 
this feature is disabled (off) or enabled (on).
00 Functionality is disabled (off) 
01 Functionality is enabled (on) 
10 Error 
11 Not available or Unused 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64971 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 185 -
SPN 1379 Service Component Identification 
Identification of component needing service. See Table SPN911_A. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 ID/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 ID Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65166 
SPN 1380 Engine Oil Level Remote Reservoir 
Ratio of current volume of engine oil in a remote reservoir to the maximum required volume. If a single switch (on/off) is 
used, 20% and 100% respectively will be used where 100% means no oil needs to be added and 20% means oil needs to 
be added. If two switches are used, 20%, 50%, and 100% will be used where 20% indicates the oil is critically low, 50% 
indicates the oil level is low, and 100% means no oil needs to be added. For continuous sensors, the actual measured 
percent will be used. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65130 
SPN 1381 Engine Fuel Supply Pump Intake Pressure 
Absolute pressure of fuel at the fuel supply pump intake. See Figures SPN16_A & SPN16_B 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 2 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 500 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65130 
SPN 1382 Engine Fuel Filter (suction side) Differential Pressure 
Differential pressure measured across the fuel filter located between the fuel tank and the supply pump. See Figures 
SPN16_A and SPN16_B. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 2 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 500 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65130 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 186 -
SPN 1385 Auxiliary Temperature #1 (duplicate see also SPN 441) 
Temperature measured by auxiliary temperature sensor #1 or #2. Not to be used in place of existing SPNs. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 deg C/bit, -40 deg C offset 
Data Range: -40 to 210 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 
SPN 1386 Auxiliary Temperature #2 (duplicate see also SPN 442) 
Temperature measured by auxiliary temperature sensor #1 or #2. Not to be used in place of existing SPNs. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 deg C/bit, -40 deg C offset 
Data Range: -40 to 210 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 
SPN 1387 Auxiliary Pressure #1 
Pressure measured by auxiliary pressure sensor #1. Not to be used in place of existing SPNs. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 16 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 4000 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65164 
SPN 1388 Auxiliary Pressure #2 
Pressure measured by auxiliary pressure sensor #2. Not to be used in place of existing SPNs. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 16 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 4000 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65164 
SPN 1389 Engine Fuel Specific Gravity 
This parameter conveys the specific gravity of the gaseous fuel being used by the engine. The specific gravity of the fuel 
can then be used to compute the density of the fuel. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.0001/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6.4255 Operational Range: 0 to 2.0000 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65202 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 187 -
SPN 1390 Engine Fuel Valve 1 Intake Absolute Pressure 
The absolute pressure of gas on the intake side of the first system control valve. See SPN 3466 for Engine Fuel Valve 2. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6,425.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65163 
SPN 1391 Engine Fuel Valve Differential Pressure 
The differential pressure between the intake and the outlet of a gaseous fuel valve. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6,425.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65163 
SPN 1392 Engine Air to Fuel Differential Pressure 
The differential pressure between the gaseous fuel and the air intake manifold. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6,425.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65163 
SPN 1393 Engine Cylinder #1 Ignition Transformer Secondary Output 
This parameter indicates the relative intensity of the secondary output voltage of the ignition transformer. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, -125 % offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65160 
SPN 1394 Engine Cylinder #2 Ignition Transformer Secondary Output 
This parameter indicates the relative intensity of the secondary output voltage of the ignition transformer. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, -125 % offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65160 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 188 -
SPN 1395 Engine Cylinder #3 Ignition Transformer Secondary Output 
This parameter indicates the relative intensity of the secondary output voltage of the ignition transformer. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, -125 % offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65160 
SPN 1396 Engine Cylinder #4 Ignition Transformer Secondary Output 
This parameter indicates the relative intensity of the secondary output voltage of the ignition transformer. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, -125 % offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65160 
SPN 1397 Engine Cylinder #5 Ignition Transformer Secondary Output 
This parameter indicates the relative intensity of the secondary output voltage of the ignition transformer. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, -125 % offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65160 
SPN 1398 Engine Cylinder #6 Ignition Transformer Secondary Output 
This parameter indicates the relative intensity of the secondary output voltage of the ignition transformer. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, -125 % offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65160 
SPN 1399 Engine Cylinder #7 Ignition Transformer Secondary Output 
This parameter indicates the relative intensity of the secondary output voltage of the ignition transformer. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, -125 % offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65160 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 189 -
SPN 1400 Engine Cylinder #8 Ignition Transformer Secondary Output 
This parameter indicates the relative intensity of the secondary output voltage of the ignition transformer. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, -125 % offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65160 
SPN 1401 Engine Cylinder #9 Ignition Transformer Secondary Output 
This parameter indicates the relative intensity of the secondary output voltage of the ignition transformer. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, -125 % offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65161 
SPN 1402 Engine Cylinder #10 Ignition Transformer Secondary Output 
This parameter indicates the relative intensity of the secondary output voltage of the ignition transformer. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, -125 % offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65161 
SPN 1403 Engine Cylinder #11 Ignition Transformer Secondary Output 
This parameter indicates the relative intensity of the secondary output voltage of the ignition transformer. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, -125 % offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65161 
SPN 1404 Engine Cylinder #12 Ignition Transformer Secondary Output 
This parameter indicates the relative intensity of the secondary output voltage of the ignition transformer. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, -125 % offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65161 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 190 -
SPN 1405 Engine Cylinder #13 Ignition Transformer Secondary Output 
This parameter indicates the relative intensity of the secondary output voltage of the ignition transformer. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, -125 % offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65161 
SPN 1406 Engine Cylinder #14 Ignition Transformer Secondary Output 
This parameter indicates the relative intensity of the secondary output voltage of the ignition transformer. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, -125 % offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65161 
SPN 1407 Engine Cylinder #15 Ignition Transformer Secondary Output 
This parameter indicates the relative intensity of the secondary output voltage of the ignition transformer. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, -125 % offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65161 
SPN 1408 Engine Cylinder #16 Ignition Transformer Secondary Output 
This parameter indicates the relative intensity of the secondary output voltage of the ignition transformer. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, -125 % offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65161 
SPN 1409 Engine Cylinder #17 Ignition Transformer Secondary Output 
This parameter indicates the relative intensity of the secondary output voltage of the ignition transformer. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, -125 % offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65162 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 191 -
SPN 1410 Engine Cylinder #18 Ignition Transformer Secondary Output 
This parameter indicates the relative intensity of the secondary output voltage of the ignition transformer. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, -125 % offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65162 
SPN 1411 Engine Cylinder #19 Ignition Transformer Secondary Output 
This parameter indicates the relative intensity of the secondary output voltage of the ignition transformer. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, -125 % offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65162 
SPN 1412 Engine Cylinder #20 Ignition Transformer Secondary Output 
This parameter indicates the relative intensity of the secondary output voltage of the ignition transformer. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, -125 % offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65162 
SPN 1413 Engine Cylinder #1 Ignition Timing 
The ignition timing of the cylinder. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1/128 deg/bit, -200 deg offset 
Data Range: -200 to 301.99 deg Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65154 
SPN 1414 Engine Cylinder #2 Ignition Timing 
The ignition timing of the cylinder. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1/128 deg/bit, -200 deg offset 
Data Range: -200 to 301.99 deg Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65154 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 192 -
SPN 1415 Engine Cylinder #3 Ignition Timing 
The ignition timing of the cylinder. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1/128 deg/bit, -200 deg offset 
Data Range: -200 to 301.99 deg Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65154 
SPN 1416 Engine Cylinder #4 Ignition Timing 
The ignition timing of the cylinder. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1/128 deg/bit, -200 deg offset 
Data Range: -200 to 301.99 deg Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65154 
SPN 1417 Engine Cylinder #5 Ignition Timing 
The ignition timing of the cylinder. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1/128 deg/bit, -200 deg offset 
Data Range: -200 to 301.99 deg Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65155 
SPN 1418 Engine Cylinder #6 Ignition Timing 
The ignition timing of the cylinder. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1/128 deg/bit, -200 deg offset 
Data Range: -200 to 301.99 deg Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65155 
SPN 1419 Engine Cylinder #7 Ignition Timing 
The ignition timing of the cylinder. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1/128 deg/bit, -200 deg offset 
Data Range: -200 to 301.99 deg Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65155 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 193 -
SPN 1420 Engine Cylinder #8 Ignition Timing 
The ignition timing of the cylinder. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1/128 deg/bit, -200 deg offset 
Data Range: -200 to 301.99 deg Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65155 
SPN 1421 Engine Cylinder #9 Ignition Timing 
The ignition timing of the cylinder. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1/128 deg/bit, -200 deg offset 
Data Range: -200 to 301.99 deg Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65156 
SPN 1422 Engine Cylinder #10 Ignition Timing 
The ignition timing of the cylinder. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1/128 deg/bit, -200 deg offset 
Data Range: -200 to 301.99 deg Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65156 
SPN 1423 Engine Cylinder #11 Ignition Timing 
The ignition timing of the cylinder. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1/128 deg/bit, -200 deg offset 
Data Range: -200 to 301.99 deg Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65156 
SPN 1424 Engine Cylinder #12 Ignition Timing 
The ignition timing of the cylinder. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1/128 deg/bit, -200 deg offset 
Data Range: -200 to 301.99 deg Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65156 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 194 -
SPN 1425 Engine Cylinder #13 Ignition Timing 
The ignition timing of the cylinder. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1/128 deg/bit, -200 deg offset 
Data Range: -200 to 301.99 deg Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65157 
SPN 1426 Engine Cylinder #14 Ignition Timing 
The ignition timing of the cylinder. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1/128 deg/bit, -200 deg offset 
Data Range: -200 to 301.99 deg Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65157 
SPN 1427 Engine Cylinder #15 Ignition Timing 
The ignition timing of the cylinder. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1/128 deg/bit, -200 deg offset 
Data Range: -200 to 301.99 deg Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65157 
SPN 1428 Engine Cylinder #16 Ignition Timing 
The ignition timing of the cylinder. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1/128 deg/bit, -200 deg offset 
Data Range: -200 to 301.99 deg Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65157 
SPN 1429 Engine Cylinder #17 Ignition Timing 
The ignition timing of the cylinder. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1/128 deg/bit, -200 deg offset 
Data Range: -200 to 301.99 deg Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65158 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 195 -
SPN 1430 Engine Cylinder #18 Ignition Timing 
The ignition timing of the cylinder. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1/128 deg/bit, -200 deg offset 
Data Range: -200 to 301.99 deg Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65158 
SPN 1431 Engine Cylinder #19 Ignition Timing 
The ignition timing of the cylinder. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1/128 deg/bit, -200 deg offset 
Data Range: -200 to 301.99 deg Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65158 
SPN 1432 Engine Cylinder #20 Ignition Timing 
The ignition timing of the cylinder. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1/128 deg/bit, -200 deg offset 
Data Range: -200 to 301.99 deg Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65158 
SPN 1433 Engine Desired Ignition Timing #1 
A programmable timing value specific to the engine’s application. Factors affecting this value include both fuel type and 
the nature of the load being driven. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1/128 deg/bit, -200 deg offset 
Data Range: -200 to 301.99 deg Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65159 
SPN 1434 Engine Desired Ignition Timing #2 
A programmable timing value specific to the engine’s application. Factors affecting this value include both fuel type and 
the nature of the load being driven. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1/128 deg/bit, -200 deg offset 
Data Range: -200 to 301.99 deg Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65159 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 196 -
SPN 1435 Engine Desired Ignition Timing #3 
A programmable timing value specific to the engine’s application. Factors affecting this value include both fuel type and 
the nature of the load being driven. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1/128 deg/bit, -200 deg offset 
Data Range: -200 to 301.99 deg Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65159 
SPN 1436 Engine Actual Ignition Timing 
The actual ignition timing at the current engine conditions. This parameter may or may not be equal to one of the desired 
timing parameters (see SPNs 1433-1435), depending on the status of the engine. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1/128 deg/bit, -200 deg offset 
Data Range: -200 to 301.99 deg Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65159 
SPN 1437 Road Speed Limit Status 
Status (active or not active) of the system used to limit maximum vehicle velocity. 
00 - Active 
01 - Not Active 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
NOTE - While somewhat inconsistent with other J1939 status parameters, the states defining 00 = active and 01 = 
inactive for Road Speed Limit Status are NOT typographical errors, and should be implemented as stated. 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61443 
SPN 1438 ABS/EBS Amber Warning Signal (Powered Vehicle) 
This parameter commands the ABS/EBS amber/yellow optical warning signal 
00 Off 
01 On 
10 Reserved 
11 Take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61441 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 197 -
SPN 1439 EBS Red Warning Signal 
This parameter commands the EBS red optical warning signal 
00 Off 
01 On 
10 Reserved 
11 Take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61441 
SPN 1440 Engine Fuel Flow Rate 1 
The rate at which the fuel is flowing through a fuel valve. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 m^3/h per bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 m^3/h Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65153 
SPN 1441 Engine Fuel Flow Rate 2 
The rate at which the fuel is flowing through a fuel valve. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 m^3/h per bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 m^3/h Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65153 
SPN 1442 Engine Fuel Valve 1 Position 
The position of a gaseous fuel valve that is metering the fuel flow to the engine. 0% indicates no fuel flow through valve 
and 100% means maximum fuel flow through valve. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65153 
SPN 1443 Engine Fuel Valve 2 Position 
The position of a gaseous fuel valve that is metering the fuel flow to the engine. 0% indicates no fuel flow through valve 
and 100% means maximum fuel flow through valve. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65153 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 198 -
SPN 1444 Engine Cylinder #1 Combustion Time 
The amount of time from when the ignition of the fuel is initiated to when the fuel is completely ignited (i.e., the flame front
has propagated across the cylinder). 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.01 ms/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 642.55 ms Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65147 
SPN 1445 Engine Cylinder #2 Combustion Time 
The amount of time from when the ignition of the fuel is initiated to when the fuel is completely ignited (i.e., the flame front
has propagated across the cylinder). 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.01 ms/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 642.55 ms Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65147 
SPN 1446 Engine Cylinder #3 Combustion Time 
The amount of time from when the ignition of the fuel is initiated to when the fuel is completely ignited (i.e., the flame front
has propagated across the cylinder). 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.01 ms/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 642.55 ms Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65147 
SPN 1447 Engine Cylinder #4 Combustion Time 
The amount of time from when the ignition of the fuel is initiated to when the fuel is completely ignited (i.e., the flame front
has propagated across the cylinder). 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.01 ms/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 642.55 ms Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65147 
SPN 1448 Engine Cylinder #5 Combustion Time 
The amount of time from when the ignition of the fuel is initiated to when the fuel is completely ignited (i.e., the flame front
has propagated across the cylinder). 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.01 ms/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 642.55 ms Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65148 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 199 -
SPN 1449 Engine Cylinder #6 Combustion Time 
The amount of time from when the ignition of the fuel is initiated to when the fuel is completely ignited (i.e., the flame front
has propagated across the cylinder). 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.01 ms/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 642.55 ms Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65148 
SPN 1450 Engine Cylinder #7 Combustion Time 
The amount of time from when the ignition of the fuel is initiated to when the fuel is completely ignited (i.e., the flame front
has propagated across the cylinder). 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.01 ms/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 642.55 ms Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65148 
SPN 1451 Engine Cylinder #8 Combustion Time 
The amount of time from when the ignition of the fuel is initiated to when the fuel is completely ignited (i.e., the flame front
has propagated across the cylinder). 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.01 ms/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 642.55 ms Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65148 
SPN 1452 Engine Cylinder #9 Combustion Time 
The amount of time from when the ignition of the fuel is initiated to when the fuel is completely ignited (i.e., the flame front
has propagated across the cylinder). 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.01 ms/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 642.55 ms Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65149 
SPN 1453 Engine Cylinder #10 Combustion Time 
The amount of time from when the ignition of the fuel is initiated to when the fuel is completely ignited (i.e., the flame front
has propagated across the cylinder). 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.01 ms/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 642.55 ms Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65149 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 200 -
SPN 1454 Engine Cylinder #11 Combustion Time 
The amount of time from when the ignition of the fuel is initiated to when the fuel is completely ignited (i.e., the flame front
has propagated across the cylinder). 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.01 ms/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 642.55 ms Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65149 
SPN 1455 Engine Cylinder #12 Combustion Time 
The amount of time from when the ignition of the fuel is initiated to when the fuel is completely ignited (i.e., the flame front
has propagated across the cylinder). 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.01 ms/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 642.55 ms Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65149 
SPN 1456 Engine Cylinder #13 Combustion Time 
The amount of time from when the ignition of the fuel is initiated to when the fuel is completely ignited (i.e., the flame front
has propagated across the cylinder). 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.01 ms/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 642.55 ms Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65150 
SPN 1457 Engine Cylinder #14 Combustion Time 
The amount of time from when the ignition of the fuel is initiated to when the fuel is completely ignited (i.e., the flame front
has propagated across the cylinder). 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.01 ms/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 642.55 ms Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65150 
SPN 1458 Engine Cylinder #15 Combustion Time 
The amount of time from when the ignition of the fuel is initiated to when the fuel is completely ignited (i.e., the flame front
has propagated across the cylinder). 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.01 ms/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 642.55 ms Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65150 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 201 -
SPN 1459 Engine Cylinder #16 Combustion Time 
The amount of time from when the ignition of the fuel is initiated to when the fuel is completely ignited (i.e., the flame front
has propagated across the cylinder). 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.01 ms/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 642.55 ms Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65150 
SPN 1460 Engine Cylinder #17 Combustion Time 
The amount of time from when the ignition of the fuel is initiated to when the fuel is completely ignited (i.e., the flame front
has propagated across the cylinder). 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.01 ms/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 642.55 ms Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65151 
SPN 1461 Engine Cylinder #18 Combustion Time 
The amount of time from when the ignition of the fuel is initiated to when the fuel is completely ignited (i.e., the flame front
has propagated across the cylinder). 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.01 ms/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 642.55 ms Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65151 
SPN 1462 Engine Cylinder #19 Combustion Time 
The amount of time from when the ignition of the fuel is initiated to when the fuel is completely ignited (i.e., the flame front
has propagated across the cylinder). 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.01 ms/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 642.55 ms Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65151 
SPN 1463 Engine Cylinder #20 Combustion Time 
The amount of time from when the ignition of the fuel is initiated to when the fuel is completely ignited (i.e., the flame front
has propagated across the cylinder). 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.01 ms/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 642.55 ms Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65151 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 202 -
SPN 1464 Engine Desired Combustion Time 
The desired combustion time based upon engine load and speed lookup maps. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.01 ms/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 642.55 ms Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65152 
SPN 1465 Engine Average Combustion Time 
The average combustion time of all cylinders of an engine. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.01 ms/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 642.55 ms Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65152 
SPN 1466 Steer Channel Mode 
Indicates the functional mode of steer channel of the tire pressure control system.
0000 Maintain 
0001 Inflate 
0010 Deflate 
0011 Confirm 
0100 Inflate Wait – System will inflate when conditions allow 
0101 Deflate Wait – System will deflate when conditions allow 
0110 Pressure Check 
0111-1101 Reserved 
1110 Error Condition 
1111 Not available 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65144 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 203 -
SPN 1467 Trailer/tag Channel Mode 
Indicates the functional mode of trailer/tag channel of the tire pressure control system. 
0000 Maintain 
0001 Inflate 
0010 Deflate 
0011 Confirm 
0100 Inflate Wait – System will inflate when conditions allow 
0101 Deflate Wait – System will deflate when conditions allow 
0110 Pressure Check 
0111-1101 Reserved 
1110 Error Condition 
1111 Not available 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65144 
SPN 1468 Drive Channel Mode 
Indicates the functional mode of trailer/tag channel of the tire pressure control system.
0000 Maintain 
0001 Inflate 
0010 Deflate 
0011 Confirm 
0100 Inflate Wait – System will inflate when conditions allow 
0101 Deflate Wait – System will deflate when conditions allow 
0110 Pressure Check 
0111-1101 Reserved 
1110 Error Condition 
1111 Not available 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65144 
SPN 1469 PCU Drive Solenoid Status 
Current state of the drive solenoid used to implement a tire pressure control system in its pneumatic control unit (PCU). 
00 - Off 
01 - On 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65144 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 204 -
SPN 1470 PCU Steer Solenoid Status 
Current state of the steer solenoid used to implement a tire pressure control system in its pneumatic control unit (PCU). 
00 - Off 
01 - On 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65144 
SPN 1471 Tire Pressure Supply Switch Status 
Current state of an open/closed type switch used to determine if adequate pressure exists for system implementation. 
00 - Off 
01 - On 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65144 
SPN 1472 PCU Deflate Solenoid Status 
Current state of the deflate solenoid used to implement a tire pressure control system in its pneumatic control unit (PCU). 
00 - Off 
01 - On 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65144 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 205 -
SPN 1473 PCU Control Solenoid Status 
Current state of the control solenoid used to implement a tire pressure control system in its pneumatic control unit (PCU). 
00 - Off 
01 - On 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65144 
SPN 1474 PCU Supply Solenoid Status 
Current state of the supply solenoid used to implement a tire pressure control system in its pneumatic control unit (PCU). 
00 - Off 
01 - On 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65144 
SPN 1475 PCU Trailer, Tag or Push Solenoid Status 
Current state of the trailer, tag, or push solenoid used to implement a tire pressure control system in its pneumatic control 
unit (PCU). 
00 - Off 
01 - On 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65144 
SPN 1476 Engine Oil Specific Resistance 
Engine oil specific resistance used to describe the engine oil quality. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.1 Mohm*m/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 25 Mohm*m Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 206 -
SPN 1477 Engine Oil Kinematic Viscosity 
Engine oil kinematic viscosity used to describe the engine oil quality. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 mm^2/s per bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 mm^2/s Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 
SPN 1478 Engine Oil Relative Dielectricity 
Engine oil relative dielectricity used to describe the engine oil quality. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.1/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 25.0 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 
SPN 1480 Source Address of Controlling Device for Retarder Control 
The source address of the SAE J1939 device currently controlling the retarder. It is used to expand the torque mode 
parameter (see SPN 899) in cases where control is in response to an ECU that is not listed in Table SPN899_A. Its value 
may be the source address of the ECU transmitting the message (which means that no external SAE J1939 message is 
providing the active command) or the source address of the SAE J1939 ECU that is currently providing the active 
command in a TSC1 (see PGN 0) or similar message. Note that if this parameter value is the same as the source 
address of the device transmitting it, the control may be due to a message on a non-SAE J1939 data link such as SAE 
J1922 or a proprietary link. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 source address/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 255 Operational Range: 0 to 253 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61440 
SPN 1481 Source Address of Controlling Device for Brake Control 
The source address of the SAE J1939 device currently controlling the brake system. Its value may be the source address 
of the ECU transmitting the message (which means that no external SAE J1939 message is providing the active 
command) or the source address of the SAE J1939 ECU that is currently providing the active command in a TSC1 (see 
PGN 0) or similar message. Note that if this parameter value is the same as the source address of the device 
transmitting it, the control may be due to a message on a non-SAE J1939 data link such as SAE J1922 or a proprietary 
link.
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 source address/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 255 Operational Range: 0 to 253 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61441 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 207 -
SPN 1482 Source Address of Controlling Device for Transmission Control 
The source address of the SAE J1939 device currently controlling the transmission. Its value may be the source address 
of the ECU transmitting the message (which means that no external SAE J1939 message is providing the active 
command) or the source address of the SAE J1939 ECU that is currently providing the active command in a TSC1 (see 
PGN 0) or similar message. Note that if this parameter value is the same as the source address of the device 
transmitting it, the control may be due to a message on a non-SAE J1939 data link such as SAE J1922 or a proprietary 
link.
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 source address/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 255 Operational Range: 0 to 253 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61442 
SPN 1483 Source Address of Controlling Device for Engine Control 
The source address of the SAE J1939 device currently controlling the engine. It is used to expand the torque mode 
parameter (see SPN 899) in cases where control is in response to an ECU that is not listed in Table SPN899_A. Its value 
may be the source address of the ECU transmitting the message (which means that no external SAE J1939 message is 
providing the active command) or the source address of the SAE J1939 ECU that is currently providing the active 
command in a TSC1 (see PGN 0) or similar message. Note that if this parameter value is the same as the source 
address of the device transmitting it, the control may be due to a message on a non-J1939 data link such as SAE J1922 
or a proprietary link. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 source address/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 255 Operational Range: 0 to 253 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61444 
(R) SPN 1487 Illumination Brightness Percent 
Commanded backlight brightness level for all cab displays.
Note: If a separate device is used to independently control the switch backlight brightness level, see SPN 5532. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 53248 
(R) SPN 1503 Armrest 1 Switch 1 
Status of the first switch located in armrest 1. 
00: Off 
01: On 
10: Reserved 
11: Don't care/take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64745 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 208 -
(R) SPN 1550 Estimated Percent Fan 2 Speed 
Estimated speed of a second fan as a ratio of the fan drive (current speed) to the fully engaged fan drive (maximum fan 
speed) A two state fan (off/on) will use 0% and 100% respectively. A three state fan (off/intermediate/on) will use 0%, 
50% and 100% respectively. A variable speed fan will use 0% to 100%. Multiple fan systems will use 0 to 100% to 
indicate the percent cooling capacity being provided. 
Note that the intermediate fan speed of a three state fan will vary with different fan drives, therefore 50% is being used to 
indicate that the intermediate speed is required from the fan drive. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64817 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 209 -
(R) SPN 1557 Fan 2 Drive State 
This parameter is used to indicate the current state or mode of operation by the second fan drive. 
0000 Fan off 
0001 Engine system–General 
0010 Excessive engine air temperature 
0011 Excessive engine oil temperature 
0100 Excessive engine coolant temperature 
0101 Excessive transmission oil temperature 
0110 Excessive hydraulic oil temperature 
0111 Default Operation 
1000 Reverse Operation 
1001 Manual control 
1010 Transmission retarder 
1011 A/C system 
1100 Timer 
1101 Engine brake 
1110 Other 
1111 Not available 
Fan off 0000b —Used to indicate that the fan clutch is disengaged and the fan is inactive 
Engine system–General 0001b —Used to indicate that the fan is active due to an engine system not otherwise defined. 
Excessive engine air temperature 0010b —Used to indicate that the fan is active due to high air temperature. 
Excessive engine oil temperature 0011b —Used to indicate that the fan is active due to high oil temperature. 
Excessive engine coolant temperature 0100b —Used to indicate that the fan is active due to high coolant temperature. 
Reverse Operation 1000b — Used to indicate that the fan is in reverse direction of operation compared to the normal 
direction of operation
Manual control 1001b —Used to indicate that the fan is active as requested by the operator. 
Transmission retarder 1010b —Used to indicate that the fan is active as required by the transmission retarder. 
A/C system 1011b —Used to indicate that the fan is active as required by the air conditioning system. 
Timer 1100b —Used to indicate that the fan is active as required by a timing function. 
Engine brake 1101b —Used to indicate that the fan is active as required to assist engine braking. 
Excessive transmission oil temperature - 0101b - Used to indicate fan is active due to excessive transmission oil 
temperature.
Excessive hydraulic oil temperature - 0110b - Used to indicate fan is active due to excessive hydraulic oil temperature. 
Default Operation - 0111b - Used to indicate fan is active due to a error condition resulting in default operation 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64817 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 210 -
SPN 1573 LED Display Data #1 
Informs display devices how to display the current vertical position. 
Values which are less than 128 decimal are bit-mapped values and any combination of these values is considered a valid 
value. For example communicating the "High Fine LED on" value to the display would result in the High Fine LED being 
turned on. Communicating a value with the "High Fine LED on" bit set to "1" and the "On-Grade LED on" bit set to "1" 
should result in the display turning on the High Fine LED AND the On-Grade LED.
Values 128 decimal and above are discrete states. Any bit-mapped combination of these states are invalid unless the 
results correspond to one of the states defined. For example, the result of adding the "Low Coarse" and "Low Medium" 
states results in the "Low Medium" state, which is valid. However, adding the "Low Medium" and the "Low Fine" states 
results in an value which does not have a defined state and is invalid. 
00000010 High Coarse LED on 
00000100 High Fine LED on 
00001000 On-grade LED on 
00010000 Low Fine LED on 
00100000 Low Coarse LED on 
10000000 Low Coarse 
10000001 Low Medium/Coarse 
10000010 Low Medium 
10000011 Low Medium/Fine 
10000100 Low Fine 
10010000 On Grade 
10010001 High Fine 
10010010 High Medium/Fine 
10010011 High Medium 
10010100 High Medium/Coarse 
10010101 High Coarse 
10011111 No data (i.e. no laser strikes) 
11111110 Error 
11111111 Not Available 
Undefined values between 10100000 binary and 11111101 binary are reserved for future use. 
Data Length: 8 bits 
Resolution: 256 states/8 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 255 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65142 
SPN 1574 Laser Strike Vertical Deviation 
The calculated distance from the laser strike position to the current land leveling system reference point. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 mm/bit, -3,200 mm offset 
Data Range: -3,200 to 3,225.5 mm Operational Range: -3200 to +3200 mm, negative values 
are below grade, positive values are 
above grade, zero is on grade, 0xFE03 
indicates that the sensor can not sense 
the laser 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65141 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 211 -
SPN 1575 Modify Leveling System Set Point 
Used to control and coordinate the set point for the leveling system. 
Operating Range: -3200 to +3200 mm, negative values are below current position, positive values are above current 
position, zero is no change. 
Parameter specific parameter: 
0xFE01 indicates Stop modifying the set point 
0xFE03 indicates Raise the current set point by 5 mm 
0xFE11 indicates Lower the current set point by 5 mm 
0xFE13 indicates Search for laser or target 
0xFE15 indicates go to the Park position 
0xFE17 indicates go to the Bench position 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 mm/bit, -3,200 mm offset 
Data Range: -3,200 to 3,225.5 mm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65140 
SPN 1576 Mast Position 
Used to monitor the position of the sensor attached to the land leveling mast. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 mm/bit, -3,200 mm offset 
Data Range: -3,200 to 3,225.5 mm Operational Range: -3200 to +3200 mm, negative values 
are below current position, positive 
values are above current position, zero 
is no change. 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65139 
SPN 1577 Blade Duration and Direction 
Used to indicate the duration and direction that the land leveling system blade moves. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 sec/bit, -3,276.8 sec offset 
Data Range: -3276.8 to 3148.7 sec Operational Range: -3276.8 to 3276.8 sec, negative values 
indicate move the blade up, positive 
values idicate move the blade down, 
zero indicates no change 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65138 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 212 -
SPN 1578 Blade Control Mode 
Allows the user to select the type of blade control for the land leveling system.
00000000 Manual mode 
00000001 Automatic mode 
00000010 Inactive automatic mode 
All other values Reserved 
Data Length: 8 bits 
Resolution: 256 states/8 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 255 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65138 
SPN 1579 Laser Tracer Target Deviation 
The calculated distance for the laser target to the current laser tracer reference point. 
Parameter specific parameter: 0xFE03 indicates that the sensor can not sense the laser 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 mm/bit, -3,200 mm offset 
Data Range: -3,200 to 3,225.5 mm Operational Range: –3200 to +3200 mm, negative values 
are below setpoint, positive values are 
above setpoint, zero is on grade. 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65137 
SPN 1580 Laser Tracer Vertical Distance 
The elevation of the laser tracer sensor in a laser leveling system. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 mm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6,425.5 mm (0 to 6.4255 m) Operational Range: 0 to 6400 mm 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65137 
SPN 1581 Laser Tracer Horizontal Deviation 
The calculated percent deviation between the target distance and the center of the laser tracer. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 % Operational Range: 0 to 200%, 0 to 99% indicates target is 
left of center, 101 to 200% indicates 
target is right of center, 100% indicates 
target is centered, 0xFF indicates 
previous pass mode and thus no 
horizontal deviation 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65137 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 213 -
SPN 1582 LED Display Data #2 
Informs display devices how to display the current position of the laser tracer. 
Values which are less than 128 decimal are bit-mapped values and any combination of these values is considered a valid 
value. For example communicating the "Up LED on" value to the display would result in the Up LED being turned on.
Communicating a value with the "Up LED on" bit set to "1" and thet "On-Grade 'A' LED on" bit set to "1" should result in 
the display turning on the Up LED AND the On-Grade "A" LED.
Values 128 decimal and above are discrete states. Any bit-mapped combination of these states are invalid unless the 
results correspond to one of the states defined. For example, the result of adding the "Low Coarse" and "Low Medium" 
states results in the "Low Medium" state, which is valid. However, adding the "Low Medium" and the "Low Fine" states 
results in an value which does not have a defined state and is invalid. 
00000001 On-grade “A” LED on 
00000010 On-grade “B” LED on 
00000100 On-grade “C” LED on 
00001000 Up LED on 
00010000 Down LED on 
00100000 Left LED on 
01000000 Right LED on 
00000001 On-grade “A” LED on 
00000010 On-grade “B” LED on 
00000100 On-grade “C” LED on 
00001000 Up LED on 
00010000 Down LED on 
00100000 Left LED on 
01000000 Right LED on 
10000000 Low Coarse 
10000001 Low Medium/Coarse 
10000010 Low Medium 
10000011 Low Medium/Fine 
10000100 Low Fine 
10010000 On Grade 
10010001 High Fine 
10010010 High Medium/Fine 
10010011 High Medium 
10010100 High Medium/Coarse 
10010101 High Coarse 
10011111 No data (i.e. no laser strikes) 
11111110 Error 
11111111 Not Available 
Undefined values between 10100000 binary and 11111101 binary are reserved for future use. 
Data Length: 8 bits 
Resolution: 256 states/8 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 255 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65137 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 214 -
SPN 1583 Laser Tracer Information 
Provides the status of the laser tracer to the operator.
00000001 Laser power is on 
00000010 Laser is ready 
00000100 Valid target (1 = yes) 
00001000 Previous pass (1 = yes) 
00010000 Stringline (1 = yes) 
00100000 Curb (1 = yes) 
All other values Reserved 
Data Length: 8 bits 
Resolution: 256 states/8 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 255 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65137 
SPN 1584 Service Component Identification 
Identification of component needing service. See Table SPN911_A. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 ID/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 ID Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 56832 
SPN 1585 Powered Vehicle Weight 
Total mass imposed by the tires of the powered vehicle on the road surface. Does not include the trailer. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 10 kg/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 642,550 kg Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65136 
SPN 1586 Speed of forward vehicle 
Absolute velocity of the preceding vehicle situated within 250 m in the same lane and moving in the same direction. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 km/h per bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 km/h Operational Range: 0xFF = no vehicle detected 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65135 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 215 -
SPN 1587 Distance to forward vehicle 
Distance to the preceding vehicle situated within 250 m in the same lane and moving in the same direction. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 m/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 m Operational Range: 0xFF = no vehicle detected 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65135 
SPN 1588 Adaptive Cruise Control Set Speed 
Value of the desired (chosen) velocity of the adaptive cruise control system. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 km/h per bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 km/h Operational Range: 0 to 120 km/h 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65135 
SPN 1589 Adaptive cruise control set distance mode 
Selected distance mode for adaptive cruise control.
000 ACC Distance mode #1 (largest distance) 
001 ACC Distance mode #2 
010 ACC Distance mode #3 
011 ACC Distance mode #4 
100 ACC Distance mode #5 (shortest distance) 
101 Conventional cruise control mode 
110 Error condition 
111 Not available/not valid 
Data Length: 3 bits 
Resolution: 8 states/3 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 7 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65135 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 216 -
SPN 1590 Adaptive Cruise Control Mode 
This parameter is used to indicate the current state, or mode, of operation by the Adaptive Cruise Control (ACC) device. 
The states characterize independent system states (e.g., it is not possible to express distance control active and overtake 
mode simultaneously). ACC must not switch itself off while active because the driver expects it to work. So if an error 
occurs, the ACC must signal that to the driver so that the driver knows that he has to switch off the ACC. 
000 Off (Standby, enabled, ready for activation) 
001 Speed control active 
010 Distance control active 
011 Overtake mode 
100 Hold mode 
101 Finish mode 
110 Disabled or error condition 
111 Not available/not valid 
000b - Off—Used to indicate the ACC is enabled in calibration or configuration and there are no faults that would prevent 
the system from operating. 
001b - Speed Control Active—Used to indicate that ACC is on but not currently sending control messages. In other 
words, there is no target ahead and regular vehicle cruise control is controlling the vehicle speed to the driver’s set speed. 
010b - Distance Control Active—Used to indicate that ACC is on and actively sending control messages to maintain the 
appropriate following interval. 
011b - Overtake Mode—Used to indicate that ACC is on but temporarily disabled because the driver is manually 
overriding cruise control by using either the accelerator pedal or the cruise control “accel” switch. 
100b - Hold Mode—Used to indicate that the ACC has lost the previous target vehicle and is in HOLD mode. In this 
mode, the ACC shall limit the speed to the speed held when the target was lost. For example, if the driver activates the 
typical cruise buttons (Resume/Inc/Dec) the HOLD mode shall be exited and normal cruise functionality resumed. If a new 
target is detected, the Distance Control Active mode (010b) is again entered, unless existing conditions prohibit this. 
101b - Finish Mode—Used to indicate that ACC is on with no target ahead, and ACC is currently sending control 
messages to return to the driver’s set speed. This occurs when the target the ACC system was tracking moves out of the 
way so ACC returns the vehicle to the driver’s set speed. 
110b - Disabled or Error Condition—Used to indicate that ACC is in an error state and can not operate. 
Data Length: 3 bits 
Resolution: 8 states/3 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 7 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65135 
SPN 1591 Road curvature 
Estimated value of the current road curvature for use by the adaptive cruise control system. Positive values are used for 
left curves. Curvature is the inverse of the radius and is zero for straight roads. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1/128 1/km per bit, -250 1/km offset 
Data Range: -250 to 251.992 1/km Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65135 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 217 -
SPN 1592 Front Axle, Left Wheel Speed 
High resolution measurement of the speed of the left wheel on the front axle. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1/256 km/h per bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250.996 km/h Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65134 
SPN 1593 Front axle, right wheel speed 
High resolution measurement of the speed of the right wheel on the front axle. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1/256 km/h per bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250.996 km/h Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65134 
SPN 1594 Rear axle, left wheel speed 
High resolution measurement of the speed of the left wheel on the rear axle. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1/256 km/h per bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250.996 km/h Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65134 
SPN 1595 Rear axle, right wheel speed 
High resolution measurement of the speed of the right wheel on the rear axle. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1/256 km/h per bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250.996 km/h Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65134 
(R) SPN 1598 Fan 2 Speed 
The speed of the second fan associated with engine coolant system. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.125 rpm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 8,031.875 rpm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64817 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 218 -
(R) SPN 1600 High Resolution Engine Fuel Rate 
Amount of fuel consumed by engine per unit of time.
NOTE - See SPN 183 for alternate resolution. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 0.001 L/h per bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 4,211,081.215 L/h Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64737 
SPN 1601 Local minute offset 
The minute component of the offset between the UTC time and date and a local time zone time and date. This is the 
number of minutes to add to UTC (Universal Time Coordinate) time and date to convert to the time and date in the local 
time zone . The Local Offset is a positive value for time zones East of the Prime Meridian to the International Date Line.
The Local Offset is a negative value for time zones West of the Prime Meridian to the International Date Line. 
The Local Minute Offset is only applicable when the Time and Date parameters are reported as UTC time and date.
Refer to SPN 1602 for details. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 min/bit, -125 min offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 mins Operational Range: -59 to +59 min 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 65254 
PGN reference: 65254 
SPN 1602 Local hour offset 
The hour component of the offset between the UTC (Universal Time Coordinate) time and date and a local time zone time 
and date. This is the number of hours to add to UTC, a.k.a. GMT, time and date to convert to the time and date in the 
local time zone. This parameter indicates the time reference of the data reported in the Time and Date SPNs 959, 960. 
961, 962, 963, and 964. The Local Offset is a positive value for time zones East of the Prime Meridian to the International 
Date Line. The Local Offset is a negative value for time zones West of the Prime Meridian to the International Date Line.
The Local Hour Offset is only applicable when the Time and Date parameters are reported as UTC time and date.
Recommended Settings: 
Applications should not use the $FF 'Not Available' if using the Time and Date parameters due to some ambiguity of the 
time standard for the reported time and date values. The recommended settings for the Local Hour Offset settings are:
If reporting the Time and Date as Local time, then Local Hour Offset must be reported as $FA. 
If reporting the Time and Date as UTC time and Local Hour Offset is not supported or not known, then Local Hour Offset 
must be reported as $F9. 
If reporting the Time and Date as UTC time and Local Hour Offset is known, then Local Hour Offset must be reported as a 
value between $66 and $94. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 hr/bit, -125 hr offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 hr Operational Range: -23 to +23 h 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 65254 
PGN reference: 65254 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 219 -
SPN 1603 Adjust seconds 
The seconds component for setting the current time of day. This should be reported as the seconds component of the 
current time according to the time of day standard indicated with the Local Hour Offset parameter (SPN 1602). The time 
of day should be reported as the current time at UTC (Universal Time Coordinate), a.k.a. GMT; however, it may be 
reported as the current time at a local time zone. The Local Hour Offset parameter (SPN 1602) is used to indicate if the 
time of day (SPNs 959, 960, and 961) is the current UTC time or a local time zone time. Refer to SPN 1602 for details. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.25 s/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 62.5 s Operational Range: 0 to 59.75 s 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 65254 
PGN reference: 54528 
SPN 1604 Adjust minutes 
The minutes component for setting the current time of day. This should be reported as the minutes component of the 
current time according to the time of day standard indicated with the Local Hour Offset parameter (SPN 1602). The time 
of day should be reported as the current time at UTC (Universal Time Coordinate), a.k.a. GMT; however, it may be 
reported as the current time at a local time zone. The Local Hour Offset parameter (SPN 1602) is used to indicate if the 
time of day (SPNs 959, 960, and 961) is the current UTC time or a local time zone time. Refer to SPN 1602 for details. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 min/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 mins Operational Range: 0 to 59 min 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 65254 
PGN reference: 54528 
SPN 1605 Adjust hours 
The hours component for setting the current time of day. This should be reported as the hours component of the current 
time according to the time of day standard indicated with the Local Hour Offset parameter (SPN 1602). The time of day 
should be reported as the current time at UTC (Universal Time Coordinate), a.k.a. GMT; however, it may be reported as 
the current time at a local time zone. The Local Hour Offset parameter (SPN 1602) is used to indicate if the time of day 
(SPNs 959, 960, and 961) is the current UTC time or a local time zone time. Refer to SPN 1602 for details. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 hr/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 hr Operational Range: 0 to 23 h 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 65254 
PGN reference: 54528 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 220 -
SPN 1606 Adjust month 
The month component for setting the current calendar date. This should be reported as the month component of the 
current date according to the calendar date standard indicated with the Local Hour Offset parameter (SPN 1602). The 
calendar date should be reported as the current date at UTC (Universal Time Coordinate), a.k.a. GMT; however, it may 
be reported as the current date at a local time zone. The Local Hour Offset parameter (SPN 1602) is used to indicate if 
the calendar date (SPNs 962, 963, and 964) is the current UTC date or a local time zone date. Refer to SPN 1602 for 
details.
NOTE - A value of 0 for the month is null. The value 1 identifies January; 2 identifies February; etc. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 month/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 months Operational Range: 1 to 12 month 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 65254 
PGN reference: 54528 
SPN 1607 Adjust day 
The day component for setting the current calendar date. This should be reported as the day component of the current 
date according to the calendar date standard indicated with the Local Hour Offset parameter (SPN 1602). The calendar 
date should be reported as the current date at UTC (Universal Time Coordinate), a.k.a. GMT; however, it may be reported 
as the current date at a local time zone. The Local Hour Offset parameter (SPN 1602) is used to indicate if the calendar 
date (SPNs 962, 963, and 964) is the current UTC date or a local time zone date. Refer to SPN 1602 for details. 
NOTE - A value of 0 for the date is null. The values 1, 2, 3, and 4 are used to identify the first day of the month; 5, 6, 7, 
and 8 identify the second day of the month; etc. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.25 days/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 62.5 days Operational Range: 0.25 to 31.75 day 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 65254 
PGN reference: 54528 
SPN 1608 Adjust year 
The year component for setting the current calendar date. This should be reported as the year component of the current 
date according to the calendar date standard indicated with the Local Hour Offset parameter (SPN 1602). The calendar 
date should be reported as the current date at UTC (Universal Time Coordinate), a.k.a. GMT; however, it may be reported 
as the current date at a local time zone. The Local Hour Offset parameter (SPN 1602) is used to indicate if the calendar 
date (SPNs 962, 963, and 964) is the current UTC date or a local time zone date. Refer to SPN 1602 for details. 
NOTE - A value of 0 for the year identifies the year 1985; a value of 1 identifies 1986; etc. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 year/bit, 1985 years offset 
Data Range: 1985 to 2235 years Operational Range: 1985 to 2235 year 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 65254 
PGN reference: 54528 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 221 -
SPN 1609 Adjust local minute offset 
The minute component for setting the offset between the UTC (Universal Time Coordinate) time and date and a the local 
time zone time and date. This is the number of minutes to add to UTC, a.k.a. GMT, time and date to convert to the time 
and date in the Local Time Zone. The Local Offset is a positive value for time zones East of the Prime Meridian to the 
International Date Line. The Local Offset is a negative value for time zones West of the Prime Meridian to the 
International Date Line. 
The Local Minute Offset is only applicable when the Time and Date parameters are reported as UTC time and date.
Refer to SPN 1602 for details. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 min/bit, -125 min offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 mins Operational Range: -59 to +59 min 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 65254 
PGN reference: 54528 
SPN 1610 Adjust local hour offset 
The hour component for setting the offset between the UTC (Universal Time Coordinate) time and date and a the local 
time zone time and date. This is the number of minutes to add to UTC, a.k.a. GMT, time and date to convert to the time 
and date in the Local Time Zone. The Local Offset is a positive value for time zones East of the Prime Meridian to the 
International Date Line. The Local Offset is a negative value for time zones West of the Prime Meridian to the 
International Date Line. 
The Local Hour Offset is only applicable when the Time and Date parameters are reported as UTC time and date. Refer 
to SPN 1602 for details. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 hr/bit, -125 hr offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 hr Operational Range: -24 to +23 h 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 65254 
PGN reference: 54528 
SPN 1611 Vehicle motion 
Indicates whether motion of the vehicle is detected or not. 
00 Vehicle motion not detected 
01 Vehicle motion detected 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65132 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 222 -
SPN 1612 Driver 1 working state 
State of work of the driver.
000 Rest - sleeping 
001 Driver available – short break 
010 Work – loading, unloading, working in an office 
011 Drive – behind wheel
100-101 Reserved 
110 Error 
111 Not available 
Data Length: 3 bits 
Resolution: 8 states/3 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 7 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65132 
SPN 1613 Driver 2 working state 
State of work of the driver.
000 Rest - sleeping 
001 Driver available – short break 
010 Work – loading, unloading, working in an office 
011 Drive – behind wheel
100-101 Reserved 
110 Error 
111 Not available 
Data Length: 3 bits 
Resolution: 8 states/3 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 7 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65132 
SPN 1614 Vehicle Overspeed 
Indicates whether the vehicle is exceeding the legal speed limit set in the tachograph. 
00 No overspeed 
01 Overspeed 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65132 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 223 -
SPN 1615 Driver card, driver 1 
Indicates the presence of a driver card 
00 - Driver card not present 
01 - Driver card present 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65132 
SPN 1616 Driver card, driver 2 
Indicates the presence of a driver card 
00 - Driver card not present 
01 - Driver card present 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65132 
SPN 1617 Driver 1 Time Related States 
Indicates if the driver approaches or exceeds working time limits (or other limits).
0000 Normal/No limits reached 
0001 Limit #1 – 15 min before 4 ½ h 
0010 Limit #2 – 4 ½ h reached 
0011 Limit #3 – 15 min before 9 h 
0100 Limit #4 – 9 h reached 
0101 Limit #5 – 15 min before 16 h (not having 8h rest during the last 24h) 
0110 Limit #6 – 16 h reached 
0111-1100 Reserved 
1101 Other 
1110 Error 
1111 Not available 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65132 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 224 -
SPN 1618 Driver 2 Time Related States 
Indicates if the driver approaches or exceeds working time limits (or other limits).
0000 Normal/No limits reached 
0001 Limit #1 – 15 min before 4 ½ h 
0010 Limit #2 – 4 ½ h reached 
0011 Limit #3 – 15 min before 9 h 
0100 Limit #4 – 9 h reached 
0101 Limit #5 – 15 min before 16 h (not having 8h rest during the last 24h) 
0110 Limit #6 – 16 h reached 
0111-1100 Reserved 
1101 Other 
1110 Error 
1111 Not available 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65132 
SPN 1619 Direction indicator 
Indicates the direction of the vehicle. 
00 - Forward 
01 - Reverse 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65132 
SPN 1620 Tachograph performance 
Indicates the tachograph performance; including electronic or mechanical analysis, instrument analysis, speed sensor 
analysis, mass storage analysis, and printer analysis. 
00 - Normal performance 
01 - Performance analysis 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65132 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 225 -
SPN 1621 Handling information 
Indicates that handling information is present. Information could include “no printer paper”, “no driver card”, etc. 
00 - No handling information 
01 - Handling information 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65132 
SPN 1622 System event 
Indicates that a tachograph event has occurred. This may include power supply interruption, interruption of the speed 
sensor, incorrect data on the driver card, driving without a driver card, illegal removal of a driver card, insertion of a driver
card during driving, and time adjustment. 
00 - No tachograph event 
01 - Tachograph event 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65132 
SPN 1623 Tachograph output shaft speed 
Calculated speed of the transmission output shaft. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.125 rpm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 8,031.875 rpm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65132 
SPN 1624 Tachograph vehicle speed 
Speed of the vehicle registered by the tachograph. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1/256 km/h per bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250.996 km/h Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65132 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 226 -
SPN 1625 Driver 1 identification 
Used to obtain the driver identity. 
Data Length: Variable - up to 1728 bytes followed by an "*" delimiter 
Resolution: ASCII, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 255 per byte Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65131 
SPN 1626 Driver 2 identification 
Used to obtain the driver identity. 
Data Length: Variable - up to 1728 bytes followed by an "*" delimiter 
Resolution: ASCII, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 255 per byte Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65131 
SPN 1632 Engine Torque Limit Feature 
Torque limit rating described in the current record.
000 Reserved 
001 Highest torque rating 
010 First torque rating 
011 Previous torque rating (rating prior to the current rating) 
100 Current torque rating 
101-110 Reserved 
111 Not available 
Data Length: 3 bits 
Resolution: 8 states/3 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 7 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65168 
SPN 1633 Cruise Control Pause Switch 
Switch signal which indicates the position of the Cruise Control Pause Switch used on Remote Cruise Control 
applications. The Cruise Control Pause Switch signal temporarily disables the Cruise Control function. 
00 - Off 
01 - On 
10 - Error Indicator 
11 -Take No Action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65265 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 227 -
SPN 1636 Engine Intake Manifold 1 Air Temperature (High Resolution) 
Temperature of pre-combustion air found in intake manifold of engine air supply system. The higher resolution is required 
for control purposes. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65129 
SPN 1637 Engine Coolant Temperature (High Resolution) 
Temperature of liquid found in engine cooling system. The higher resolution is required for control purposes. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65129 
SPN 1638 Hydraulic Temperature 
Temperature of hydraulic fluid. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 deg C/bit, -40 deg C offset 
Data Range: -40 to 210 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65128 
SPN 1639 Fan Speed 
The speed of the fan associated with engine coolant system. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.125 rpm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 8,031.875 rpm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65213 
SPN 1653 Vehicle Limiting Speed Governor Enable Switch 
Switch signal which enables the Vehicle Limiting Speed Governor (VLSG) such that the vehicle speed may be either 
increased or decreased when the engine is off idle. 
00 - Switch disabled 
01 - Switched enabled 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 57344 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 228 -
SPN 1654 Vehicle Limiting Speed Governor Increment Switch 
Switch signal which increases the Vehicle Limiting Speed Governor (VLSG). 
00 - Switch in the off state 
01 - Switch in the on state - increase 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 57344 
SPN 1655 Vehicle Limiting Speed Governor Decrement Switch 
Switch signal which decreases the Vehicle Limiting Speed Governor (VLSG). 
00 - Switch in the off state 
01 - Switch in the on state - decrease 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 57344 
SPN 1656 Engine Automatic Start Enable Switch 
Switch signal which enables the idle management system to be enabled. When this system is enabled with the engine in 
an idle mode and safe operating conditions existing, then the engine may be started or stopped automatically. 
00 - Switch in the off state 
01 - Switch in the on state 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 57344 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 229 -
SPN 1665 Engine Turbocharger Oil Level Switch 
Switch signal which indicates the presence of oil at the turbocharger 
 00 = No oil present at turbocharger 
 01 = Oil present at turbocharger 
 10 = Error 
 11 = Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65245 
SPN 1666 Automatic Gear Shifting Enable Switch 
Indicates that automated gear shifting is enabled via a switch 
 00 = Automated Gear Shifting is disabled 
 01 = Automated Gear Shifting is enabled 
 10 = Error 
 11 = Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 57344 
SPN 1667 Retarder Requesting Brake Light 
Indicates that whether the retarder is requesting that the brake lights are illuminated. 
 00 - Retarder is not requesting that the brake lights are illuminated 
 01 - Retarder is requesting that the brake lights are illuminated 
 10 - Reserved 
 11 - Not available/Take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61440 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 230 -
SPN 1675 Engine Starter Mode 
There are several phases in a starting action and different reasons why a start cannot take place. 
0000 start not requested 
0001 starter active, gear not engaged 
0010 starter active, gear engaged 
0011 start finished; starter not active after having been actively engaged (after 50ms mode goes to 0000) 
0100 starter inhibited due to engine already running 
0101 starter inhibited due to engine not ready for start (preheating) 
0110 starter inhibited due to driveline engaged or other transmission inhibit 
0111 starter inhibited due to active immobilizer 
1000 starter inhibited due to starter over-temp 
1001-1011 Reserved 
1100 starter inhibited - reason unknown 
1101 error (legacy implementation only, use 1110) 
1110 error 
1111 not available 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61444 
SPN 1676 Auxiliary Heater Water Pump Status 
Parameter indicating whether the auxiliary heater water pump is running 
00 Water Pump is not running 
01 Water Pump is running 
10 Reserved 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65133 
SPN 1677 Auxiliary Heater Mode 
State of the auxiliary heater 
0000 Heater not active 
0001 Off due to ADR per European Regulations for Transport of hazardous materials 
0010 Economy mode 
0011 Normal mode 
0100-1101 Not defined 
1110 Error 
1111 Not available 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65133 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 231 -
SPN 1678 Cab Ventilation 
Indicates whether the cab is being ventilated or not. 
00 Cab not ventilated 
01 Cab is ventilated 
10 Reserved 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65133 
SPN 1679 Engine Heating Zone 
Parameter indicating whether the engine zone is being heated. 
00 Engine heating zone off 
01 Engine heating zone on 
10 Reserved 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65133 
SPN 1680 Cab Heating Zone 
Parameter indicating whether the cab zone is being heated. 
00 Cab heating zone off 
01 Cab heating zone on 
10 Reserved 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65133 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 232 -
SPN 1681 Battery Main Switch Hold State 
Parameter indicating whether the battery main switch is held due to an external request or not. The state battery main 
switch held indicates that the battery main switch is about to switch off. 
00 Battery main switch not held 
01 Battery main switch held 
10 Reserved 
11 Don't care/take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65126 
SPN 1682 Battery Main Switch Hold Request 
Request to hold the battery main switch. 
00 Release Battery Main Switch 
01 Hold Battery Main Switch 
10 undefined 
11 Don't care/take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 57344 
SPN 1683 Auxiliary Heater Mode Request 
Request to activate the auxiliary heater. 
0000 De-activate auxiliary heater 
0001 Off due to ADR per European Regulations for Transport of hazardous materials 
0010 Economy mode 
0011 Normal mode 
0100-1101 Not defined 
1110 Reserved 
1111 Don't care/take no action 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 57344 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 233 -
SPN 1684 Auxiliary Heater Coolant Pump Request 
Indicates whether to activate the auxiliary heater coolant water pump. 
00 Deactivate water pump 
01 Activate water pump 
10 Reserved 
11 Don't care/take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 57344 
SPN 1685 Request Engine Zone Heating 
Request to activate engine zone heating. 
00 Do not heat engine zone 
01 Heat engine zone 
10 Reserved 
11 Don't care/take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 57344 
SPN 1686 Request Cab Zone Heating 
Request to activate cab zone heating. 
00 Do not cab engine zone 
01 Heat cab zone 
10 Reserved 
11 Don't care/take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 57344 
SPN 1687 Auxiliary Heater Output Coolant Temperature 
Temperature of the auxiliary heater output coolant (I.e. water in a water heater system.) 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 deg C/bit, -40 deg C offset 
Data Range: -40 to 210 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65133 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 234 -
SPN 1688 Auxiliary Heater Input Air Temperature 
Temperature of the input air in an auxiliary heater system. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 deg C/bit, -40 deg C offset 
Data Range: -40 to 210 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65133 
SPN 1689 Auxiliary Heater Output Power Percent 
Current auxiliary heater output power, relative to the auxiliary heater maximum output power. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65133 
SPN 1690 Auxiliary Heater Maximum Output Power 
The maximum output power of the auxiliary heater. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 2 W/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 128,510 W Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65127 
SPN 1691 Cab Interior Temperature Command 
Parameter used to command a certain cab interior temperature. 
Note: See also SPN 170. SPN 1662 is an additional diagnostic SPN associated with cab temperature. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 57344 
SPN 1692 Engine Desired Absolute Intake Manifold Pressure (Turbo Boost Limit) 
The desired absolute intake manifold pressure of the engine. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6,425.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65194 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 235 -
SPN 1693 Engine Turbocharger Wastegate Valve Position 
The position of the turbocharger wastegate valve (not the electronic wastegate control valve). 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65194 
SPN 1694 Engine Gas Mass Flow Sensor Fueling Correction 
The amount of fuel the Gas Mass Flow Sensor is sensing should be added or subtracted compared to the maximum 
amount of fuel the control system allows the sensor to add or subtract. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, -125 % offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65194 
SPN 1695 Engine Exhaust Gas Oxygen Sensor Fueling Correction 
The amount of fueling change required by the system based on the measured Exhaust Oxygen value compared to the 
maximum fueling change permitted by the system, expressed as percentages. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, -125 % offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65193 
SPN 1696 Engine Exhaust Gas Oxygen Sensor Closed Loop Operation 
Indicates whether the engine is using the Exhaust Gas Oxygen sensor to control the air/fuel ratio. 
00 Engine not using the Exhaust Gas Oxygen sensor (open loop) 
01 Engine using the Exhaust Gas Oxygen sensor for a closed loop operation 
10 Reserved 
11 Don't Care/take no action 
See also SPN 4240 for an implementation with more states. 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65193 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 236 -
SPN 1697 CTI Wheel End Electrical Fault 
Indicates the status of electrical fault on CTI wheel interface. 
00 Ok ( No Fault) 
01 Not Defined 
10 Error 
11 Not Supported 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65268 
SPN 1698 CTI Tire Status 
Indicates the status of the tire. 
00 Ok (no fault) 
01 Tire leak detected 
10 Error 
11 Not Supported 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65268 
SPN 1699 CTI Wheel Sensor Status 
Indicates whether the wheel is being monitored by the CTI controller. 
00 Off / isolated from CTI Pressure Controller 
01 On (tire is polled) 
10 Not Defined 
11 Not Supported 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65268 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 237 -
SPN 1700 Lane Departure Imminent, Left Side 
Indicates departure imminent on left side of lane. 
00 Not imminent 
01 Imminent 
10 Reserved 
11 Not used 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61447 
SPN 1701 Lane Departure Imminent, Right Side 
Indicates departure imminent on right side of lane. 
00 Not imminent 
01 Imminent 
10 Reserved 
11 Not Used 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61447 
SPN 1702 Lane Departure Indication Enable Status 
Indicates whether lane departure indication is active. 
00 Lane Departure indication disabled 
01 Lane Departure Indication enabled
10 Reserved 
11 Not Used 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65115 
(R) SPN 1707 Hydraulic Fan 2 Motor Pressure 
The hydraulic pressure used to drive the second fan system, sensed before the hydraulic fan motor. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.5 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 32,127.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64817 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 238 -
(R) SPN 1708 Fan 2 Drive Bypass Command Status 
Status of the Fan Drive Bypass Command for the second fan as being commanded by the ECU. The fan drive bypass 
diverts pump pressure away from the hydraulic motor to maintain the fan drive pressure. 0% is defined as no bypass (i.e. 
diverting no fan drive pressure) and 100% is defined as full bypass (i.e. diverting the maximum fan drive pressure) from 
the fan motor. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64817 
SPN 1710 Lane Tracking Status Left Side 
Indicates whether the left side is tracking lane. 
00 Not Tracking Left side 
01 Tracking Left side 
10 Reserved 
11 Don't care/Take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65115 
SPN 1711 Lane Tracking Status Right Side 
Indicates whether right side is tracking lane. 
00 Not Tracking Right side 
01 Tracking Right side 
10 Reserved 
11 Don't Care/take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65115 
SPN 1712 Engine Extended Range Requested Speed Control Range Upper Limit (Engine configuration) 
The maximum engine speed regardless of load that the engine will allow when operating in a speed control/limit mode, 
excluding any maximum momentary engine override speed, if supported.
When the limit is higher than 2500 RPM the 'Requested Speed Control Range Upper Limit (Engine Configuration)' 
parameter (see SPN 536) will be transmitted with a value of 2500 RPM. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.125 rpm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 8,031.875 rpm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65251 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 239 -
SPN 1713 Hydraulic Oil Filter Restriction Switch 
This switch indicates whether hydraulic oil filter is clogged. This is not the transmission oil filter restriction switch, which is 
SPN 3359. 
00 No restriction 
01 Restriction exists on oil filter 
10 Error 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65128 
SPN 1714 Operator Seat Direction Switch 
Senses whether the operator seat is in the forward driving position 
00 Operator seat not facing forward 
01 Operator seat is facing forward 
10 Error 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 57344 
SPN 1715 Drivers Demand Retarder - Percent Torque 
The Drivers demand retarder – percent torque is the maximum torque selected by the driver when one or more modes
are selected by the driver, such as hand lever, switch, constant torque, constant velocity, etc. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, -125 % offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 % Operational Range: -125% to 0% 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61440 
SPN 1716 Retarder Selection, non-engine 
The “Retarder Selection, non-engine” is the position of the driver’s selector for retarders that are not part of the engine 
system, expressed as percent and determined by the ratio of current position to the maximum possible position. The 
physical device may be a lever, rotary dial, combination of switches, or other device that the driver can use to select the 
type or amount of retardation needed. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61440 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 240 -
SPN 1717 Actual Maximum Available Retarder - Percent Torque 
This is the maximum amount of torque that the retarder can immediately deliver. It is the same as the maximum torque 
shown in the Retarder’s Configuration message, but allows for a much faster rate of change than could be communicated 
by reissuing the configuration message.
Application Note: The purpose for this parameter is to allow a “Master” retarder controller to more accurately allocate the 
vehicle’s retarder requirements among multiple retarders. Its value should be the same as the value in the Configuration 
message at the time that message is assembled for broadcast, but may vary between those broadcasts. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, -125 % offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 % Operational Range: -125 % to 0 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61440 
SPN 1718 Damper Stiffness Request Front Axle 
Demand value for the shock absorber control at the front axle. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 53760 
SPN 1719 Damper Stiffness Request Rear Axle 
Demand value for the shock absorber control at the rear axle. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 53760 
SPN 1720 Damper Stiffness Request Lift / Tag Axle 
Demand value for the shock absorber control at the lift or tag axle 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 53760 
SPN 1721 Relative Level Front Axle Left 
Information of the height at the left side of the front axle referred to normal level 1. For explanations of normal level 1 see
SPN 1734 - Nominal Level Front Axle. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 mm/bit, -3,200 mm offset 
Data Range: -3,200 to 3,225.5 mm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65113 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 241 -
SPN 1722 Relative Level Front Axle Right 
Information of the height at the right side of the front axle referred to normal level 1. For explanations of normal level 1 
see SPN 1734 - Nominal Level Front Axle. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 mm/bit, -3,200 mm offset 
Data Range: -3,200 to 3,225.5 mm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65113 
SPN 1723 Relative Level Rear Axle Right 
Information of the height at the left side of the rear axle referred to normal level 1. For explanations of normal level 1 see
parameter SPN 1734 - Nominal Level Front Axle. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 mm/bit, -3,200 mm offset 
Data Range: -3,200 to 3,225.5 mm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65113 
SPN 1724 Relative Level Rear Axle Left 
Information of the height at the left side of the rear axle referred to normal level 1. For explanations of normal level 1 see
parameter SPN 1734 - Nominal Level Front Axle. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 mm/bit, -3,200 mm offset 
Data Range: -3,200 to 3,225.5 mm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65113 
SPN 1725 Bellow Pressure Front Axle Left 
Information of the pressure of the air suspension bellow at the left side of the front axle 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6,425.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65112 
SPN 1726 Bellow Pressure Front Axle Right 
Information of the pressure of the air suspension bellow at the right side of the front axle 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6,425.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65112 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 242 -
SPN 1727 Bellow Pressure Rear Axle Left 
Information of the pressure of the air suspension bellow at the left side of the rear axle 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6,425.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65112 
SPN 1728 Bellow Pressure Rear Axle Right 
Information of the pressure of the air suspension bellow at the right side of the rear axle 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6,425.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65112 
SPN 1729 Damper Stiffness Front Axle 
Damper stiffness information of the shock absorber control at the front axle 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65111 
SPN 1730 Damper Stiffness Rear Axle 
Damper stiffness information of the shock absorber control at the rear axle 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65111 
SPN 1731 Damper Stiffness Lift / Tag Axle 
Damper stiffness information of the shock absorber control at the lift of tag axle 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65111 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 243 -
SPN 1732 Level Preset Front Axle Left 
Set value for nominal level 'preset level' at the left side of the front axle. This value is referred to 'Normal level 1'. For
explanations of normal level 1 see parameter SPN 1734 - Nominal Level Front Axle. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 mm/bit, -3,200 mm offset 
Data Range: -3,200 to 3,225.5 mm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 53504 
SPN 1733 Nominal Level Rear Axle 
Signal which indicates the nominal (desired) height of the rear axle to be controlled by the suspension system. 
For further explanations see SPN 1734 - Nominal Level Front Axle. 
0000 Level not specified,(i.e. the nominal level is none of the specified levels, no error condition) 
0001 "Normal Level 1,(i.e. the level prescribed for normal driving, given by design) 
0010 "Normal Level 2,(i.e. a level permitted for driving, for example to lower the vehicle in case of high speed) 
0011 "Normal Level 3,(i.e. a level permitted for driving, for example to lift the vehicle in case of offroad) 
0100 "Preset Level,(i.e. a level to be defined externally via CAN) 
0101 "Customer Level,(i.e. a level to be defined by customer via parameter setting) 
0110 "Upper Level,(i.e. the highest level to be controlled) 
0111 "Lower Level,(i.e. the lowest level to be controlled) 
1000 Not defined 
1001 Raising 
1010 Lowering 
1011-1101 Not defined 
1110 Error 
1111 Not available 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65114 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 244 -
SPN 1734 Nominal Level Front Axle 
Signal which indicates the nominal (desired) height of the front axle to be controlled by the suspension system. 
These heights are discrete levels. They are the upper level, lower level, normal level 1, normal level 2, normal level 3, 
customer level, and preset level. Refer to Figure SPN1734_A. 
· Upper Level is the highest mechanically available height of the vehicle.
· Lower Level is the lowest mechanically available height of the vehicle.
Normal Levels 1, 2 and 3 are heights normally used during driving. 
· Normal Level 1 is most often used and is given by design.
· Normal Level 2 may be chosen, for example, to be lower than Normal Level 1 for the purpose of reducing fuel 
consumption while driving on highways.
· Normal Level 3 may be chosen above Normal Level 1 for driving off road. 
The preset level has to be set by means of ASC 6 (PGN: 53504). 
States 'Rasing' and 'Lowering' are only active when corresponding states are requested in SPN 1751. This provides the 
possibility to adjust vehicle to a level other than the predefined levels. 
0000 Level not specified,(i.e. the nominal level is none of the specified levels, no error condition) 
0001 "Normal Level 1,(i.e. the level prescribed for normal driving, given by design) 
0010 "Normal Level 2,(i.e. a level permitted for driving, for example to lower the vehicle in case of high speed) 
0011 "Normal Level 3,(i.e. a level permitted for driving, for example to lift the vehicle in case of offroad) 
0100 "Preset Level,(i.e. a level to be defined externally via CAN) 
0101 "Customer Level,(i.e. a level to be defined by customer via parameter setting) 
0110 "Upper Level,(i.e. the highest level to be controlled) 
0111 "Lower Level,(i.e. the lowest level to be controlled) 
1000 Not defined 
1001 Raising 
1010 Lowering 
1011-1101 Not defined 
1110 Error 
1111 Not available 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 1734 
PGN reference: 65114 
SPN 1735 Level Preset Rear Axle Right 
Set value for nominal level 'preset level' at the right side of the rear axle. This value is referred to 'Normal level 1'. For
explanations of normal level 1 see SPN 1734 - Nominal Level Front Axle. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 mm/bit, -3,200 mm offset 
Data Range: -3,200 to 3,225.5 mm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 53504 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 245 -
SPN 1736 Above Nominal Level Rear Axle 
Signal which indicates whether the actual height of the rear axle is above the nominal (desired) level of the rear axle. For 
explanations of nominal level see parameter SPN 1734 - Nominal Level Front Axle. 
00 Not above 
01 Above 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65114 
SPN 1737 Above Nominal Level Front Axle 
Signal which indicates whether the actual height of the front axle is above the nominal (desired) level of the front axle. For 
explanations of nominal level see SPN 1734 - Nominal Level Front Axle. 
00 Not above 
01 Above 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65114 
SPN 1738 Below Nominal Level Front Axle 
Signal which indicates whether the actual height of the front axle is below the nominal (desired) level for the front axle. For
explanations of nominal level see parameter SPN 1734 - Nominal Level Front Axle. 
00 Not below 
01 Below 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65114 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 246 -
SPN 1739 Lifting Control Mode Front Axle 
Signal which indicates the actual lifting level change at the front axle 
00 Lifting not active 
01 Lifting active 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65114 
SPN 1740 Lowering Control Mode Front Axle 
Signal which indicates the actual lowering level change at the front axle 
00 Lowering not active 
01 Lowering active 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65114 
SPN 1741 Level Control Mode 
Signal which indicates the actual control mode of the air suspension system 
0000 Normal operation; i.e. the system performs a ""pure"" control of the vehicle height 
0001 Traction help (load transfer); i.e. the driven axle is loaded to a maximum value given by legislation or design 
0010 Load fixing; i.e. the driven axlen is loaded to a value defined by the driver 
0011 Pressure ratio 1; i.e. the ratio between the pressures at the driven axle and at the third axle is controlled, so that 
the ratio equals a fixed value 1 
0100 Pressure ratio 2; i.e. the ratio between the pressures at the driven axle and at the third axle is controlled, so that 
the ratio equals a fixed value 2 
0101 Optimum traction 1; i.e. the pressure at the driven axle is controlled at a fixed value 1 
0110 Optimum traction 2; i.e. the pressure at the driven axle is controlled at a fixed value 2 
0111 Traction help - load reduce; (i.e. the driven axle load is reduced to normal load condition) 
1000 Exhausting bellow function; i.e. the bellows are exhausted totally 
1001 Air suspension control prohibited ( i.e. hold current pressures in all suspension devices.) 
1010 Automatic air suspension control prohibited 
1011-1101 Not defined 
1110 Error 
1111 Not available 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65114 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 247 -
SPN 1742 Kneeling Information 
Signal which indicates the actual level change in case of kneeling function 
0000 Not active,(i.e. the kneeling function is not active") 
0001Lowering active,(i.e. the vehicle is lowered due to a kneeling request) 
0010 Kneeling level reached,(i.e. the vehicle is at the fixed kneeling level) 
0011 Lifting active,(i.e. the vehicle is lifted due to a recover request) 
0100 Kneeling aborted,(i.e. in case of manual actuation the request was dropped before the kneeling level was reached) 
0101-1101 Not defined 
1110 Error 
1111 Not available 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65114 
SPN 1743 Lift Axle 1 Position 
Signal which indicates the position / load condition of lift axle / tag axle #1. Numbering of lift/tag axles starts at front axle.
00 Lift axle position down / tag axle laden 
01 Lift axle position up / tag axle unladen 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65114 
SPN 1744 Door Release 
Signal which indicates that the doors may be opened. [Please note: doors instead of door!] 
In case a kneeling request is active the ASC indicates during lowering the vehicle "doors shall not be opened" as a 
security information until the kneeling level is reached. Then "doors may be opened" is sent. 
00 Doors may not be opened 
01 Doors may be opened 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65114 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 248 -
SPN 1745 Vehicle Motion Inhibit 
Signal which indicates whether vehicle motion is inhibited. 
00 Vehicle may be moved 
01 Vehicle motion is inhibited 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65114 
SPN 1746 Security Device 
The signal which indicates the status of the security device. An example of a security device is a curbstone feeler 
installed beneath the doors of a bus. If the security device becomes active during kneeling the kneeling process 
(lowering) is stopped and the vehicle lifts back to the starting level. 
00 Not active 
01 Active 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65114 
SPN 1747 Kneeling Control Mode Request 
Command signal to select the kneeling functionality 
00 Automatically actuated 
01 Manually actuated 
10 Reserved 
11 Don't care/take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 53760 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 249 -
SPN 1748 Kneeling Request Right Side 
Command signal to activate the kneeling functionality on the right side of the vehicle 
00 No kneeling request 
01 Kneeling request 
10 Reserved 
11 Don't care/take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 53760 
SPN 1749 Kneeling Request Left Side 
Command signal to activate the kneeling functionality on the left side of the vehicle 
00 No kneeling request 
01 Kneeling request 
10 Reserved 
11 Don't care/take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 53760 
SPN 1750 Nominal Level Request Rear Axle 
Command signal to activate a level of the rear axle programmed and/or memorized in the ECU. For explanations of 
nominal level see SPN 1734 - Nominal Level Front Axle. 
0000 No level request 
0001 Normal Level 1,(i.e. the level prescribed for normal driving, given by design) 
0010 Normal Level 2,(i.e. a level permitted for driving, for example to lower the vehicle in case of high speed) 
0011 Normal Level 3,(i.e. a level permitted for driving, for example to lift the vehicle in case of offroad) 
0100 Preset Level,(i.e. a level to be defined externally via CAN) 
0101 Customer Level,(i.e. a level to be defined by customer via parameter setting) 
0110 Upper Level,(i.e. the highest level to be controlled) 
0111 Lower Level,(i.e. the lowest level to be controlled) 
1000 Stop level change,(i.e. the level change in process shall be stopped immediately) 
1001 Raise Request (Continuously raising front axle, as long as active). 
1010 Lower Request (Continuously lowering front axle, as long as active). 
1011-1101 Not defined 
1110 Reserved 
1111 Don't care/take no action 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 53760 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 250 -
SPN 1751 Nominal Level Request Front Axle 
Command signal to activate a level of the front axle programmed and/or memorized in the ECU For explanations of 
nominal level see SPN 1734 - Nominal Level Front Axle. 
0000 No level request 
0001 Normal Level 1,(i.e. the level prescribed for normal driving, given by design) 
0010 Normal Level 2,(i.e. a level permitted for driving, for example to lower the vehicle in case of high speed) 
0011 Normal Level 3,(i.e. a level permitted for driving, for example to lift the vehicle in case of offroad) 
0100 Preset Level,(i.e. a level to be defined externally via CAN) 
0101 Customer Level,(i.e. a level to be defined by customer via parameter setting) 
0110 Upper Level,(i.e. the highest level to be controlled) 
0111 Lower Level,(i.e. the lowest level to be controlled) 
1000 Stop level change,(i.e. the level change in process shall be stopped immediately) 
1001 Raise Request (Continuously raising front axle, as long as active). 
1010 Lower Request (Continuously lowering front axle, as long as active). 
1011-1101 Not defined 
1110 Reserved 
1111 Don't care/take no action 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 53760 
SPN 1752 Lift Axle 1 Position Command 
Signal to command the position/load condition of lift/tag axle #1. Numbering of lift/tag axles starts at front axle. 
00 Lift axle position down / tag axle laden 
01 Lift axle position up / tag axle unladen 
10 Reserved 
11 Don't care/take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 53760 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 251 -
SPN 1753 Level Control Mode Request 
Command signal to activate a level control mode 
0000 Normal operation; i.e. the system performs a ""pure"" control of the vehicle height 
0001 Traction help (load transfer); i.e. the driven axle is loaded to a maximum value given by legislation or design 
0010 Load fixing; i.e. the driven axle is loaded to a value defined by the driver 
0011 Pressure ratio 1; i.e. the ratio between the pressures at the driven axle and at the third axle is controlled, so that 
the ratio equals a fixed value 1 
0100 Pressure ratio 2; i.e. the ratio between the pressures at the driven axle and at the third axle is controlled, so that 
the ratio equals a fixed value 2 
0101 Optimum traction 1; i.e. the pressure at the driven axle is controlled at a fixed value 1 
0110 Optimum traction 2; i.e. the pressure at the driven axle is controlled at a fixed value 2 
0111 Traction help - load reduce; (i.e. reduce axle load of driven axle to normal load condition) 
1000 Exhaust bellows 
1001 -1101 Not defined 
1110 Reserved 
1111 Don't care/take no action 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 53760 
SPN 1754 Below Nominal Level Rear Axle 
Signal which indicates whether the actual height of the rear axle is below the nominal (desired) level for the rear axle. For 
explanations of nominal level see SPN 1734 - Nominal Level Front Axle. 
00 Not below 
01 Below 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65114 
SPN 1755 Lowering Control Mode Rear Axle 
Signal which indicates the actual lowering level change at the rear axle 
00 Lowering not active 
01 Lowering active 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65114 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 252 -
SPN 1756 Lifting Control Mode Rear Axle 
Signal which indicates the actual lifting level change at the rear axle 
00 Lifting not active 
01 Lifting active 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65114 
SPN 1757 Level Preset Front Axle Right 
Set value for nominal level 'preset level' at the right side of the front axle. This value is referred to 'Normal level 1'. For
explanations of normal level 1 see SPN 1734 - Nominal Level Front Axle. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 mm/bit, -3,200 mm offset 
Data Range: -3,200 to 3,225.5 mm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 53504 
SPN 1758 Level Preset Rear Axle Left 
Set value for nominal level 'preset level' at the left side of the rear axle. This value is referred to 'Normal level 1'. For 
explanations of normal level 1 see SPN 1734 - Nominal Level Front Axle. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 mm/bit, -3,200 mm offset 
Data Range: -3,200 to 3,225.5 mm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 53504 
SPN 1759 Blade Height Set Point - High Resolution 
High resolution for the laser guided blade set point. The high resolution required for more accurate control and 'accurate' 
unit conversions. 
Negative values are below grade, positive values are above grade, zero is on grade. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 100 mm/bit, -209.7152 m offset 
Data Range: -209.7152 to 211.3929215 m Operational Range: -209.7152m to 209.7152m 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65140 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 253 -
SPN 1760 Gross Combination Vehicle Weight 
The total weight of the truck and all attached trailers. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 10 kg/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 642,550 kg Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65136 
(R) SPN 1761 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 1 Level 
Ratio of volume of diesel exhaust fluid to the total volume of diesel exhaust fluid storage container. 
0 % = Empty 
100% = Full 
See also SPN 3517 for alternate SLOT. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 1761 
PGN reference: 65110 
SPN 1762 Hydraulic Pressure 
Hydraulic pressure measured at the output of the hydraulic pump. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 2 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 128,510 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61448 
SPN 1763 Engine Hydraulic Pressure Governor Mode Indicator 
Mode for governor operation is hydraulic pressure control. 
00 Disabled 
01 Enabled 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61448 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 254 -
SPN 1764 Engine Hydraulic Pressure Governor Switch 
Switch that sets the mode of hydraulic governor 
00 Pressure Mode Inactive 
01 Pressure Mode Active 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61448 
SPN 1765 Engine Requested Fuel Valve 1 Position 
The requested position of a gaseous fuel valve 1 that is metering the fuel flow to the engine. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65153 
SPN 1766 Engine Requested Fuel Valve 2 Position 
The requested position of a gaseous fuel valve 2 that is metering the fuel flow to the engine, as requested by the Engine 
Control Unit. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65153 
SPN 1767 Specific Heat Ratio 
The specific heat ratio of the fuel. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.001/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 64.255 Operational Range: 0 to 2.0000 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65109 
SPN 1768 Engine Low Limit Threshold for Maximum RPM from Engine 
Minimum allowable value for maximum continuous RPM from engine 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 32 rpm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 8,000 rpm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65108 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 255 -
SPN 1769 Engine High Limit Threshold for Minimum Continuous Engine RPM 
Maximum allowable value for minimum continuous RPM from engine 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 32 rpm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 8,000 rpm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65108 
SPN 1770 Engine Low Limit Threshold for Maximum Torque from Engine 
Minimum allowable value for maximum continuous torque from engine 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, -125 % offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65108 
SPN 1771 Engine High Limit Threshold for Minimum Continuous Torque from Engine 
Maximum allowable value for minimum continuous torque from engine 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, -125 % offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65108 
SPN 1772 Engine Maximum Continuous RPM 
Applied limit for maximum continuous engine RPM 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 32 rpm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 8,000 rpm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65108 
SPN 1773 Engine Minimum Continuous RPM 
Applied limit for minimum continuous engine RPM 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 32 rpm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 8,000 rpm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65108 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 256 -
SPN 1774 Engine Maximum Continuous Torque 
Applied limit for maximum continuous engine torque. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, -125 % offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65108 
SPN 1775 Engine Minimum Continuous Torque 
Applied limit for minimum continuous engine torque 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, -125 % offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65108 
SPN 1776 Low Limit Threshold for Maximum RPM from Retarder 
Minimum allowable value for maximum continuous retarder speed 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 32 rpm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 8,000 rpm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65107 
SPN 1777 High Limit Threshold for Minimum Continuous RPM from Retarder 
Maximum allowable value for minimum continuous retarder speed 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 32 rpm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 8,000 rpm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65107 
SPN 1778 Low Limit Threshold for Maximum Torque from Retarder 
Minimum allowable value for maximum continuous retarder torque. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, -125 % offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65107 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 257 -
SPN 1779 High Limit Threshold for Minimum Continuous Torque from Retarder 
Maximum allowable value for minimum continuous retarder torque. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, -125 % offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65107 
SPN 1780 Maximum Continuous Retarder Speed 
Applied limit for maximum continuous retarder RPM 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 32 rpm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 8,000 rpm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65107 
SPN 1781 Minimum Continuous Retarder Speed 
Applied limit for minimum continuous retarder RPM 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 32 rpm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 8,000 rpm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65107 
SPN 1782 Maximum Continuous Retarder Torque 
Applied limit for maximum continuous retarder torque. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, -125 % offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65107 
SPN 1783 Minimum Continuous Retarder Torque 
Applied limit for minimum continuous retarder torque 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, -125 % offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65107 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 258 -
SPN 1784 Engine Speed Limit Request - Minimum Continuous 
Requested minimum continuous engine speed 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 32 rpm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 8,000 rpm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 52992 
SPN 1785 Engine Speed Limit Request - Maximum Continuous 
Requested maximum continuous engine speed 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 32 rpm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 8,000 rpm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 52992 
SPN 1786 Engine Torque Limit Request - Minimum Continuous 
Requested minimum continuous engine torque (operating range: 0 to 125%) 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, -125 % offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 % Operational Range: 0 to 125% 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 52992 
SPN 1787 Engine Torque Limit Request - Maximum Continuous 
Requested maximum continuous engine torque (operating range: 0 to 125%) 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, -125 % offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 % Operational Range: 0 to 125% 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 52992 
SPN 1788 Minimum Continuous Retarder Speed Limit Request 
Requested minimum continuous retarder speed 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 32 rpm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 8,000 rpm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 52992 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 259 -
SPN 1789 Maximum Continuous Retarder Speed Limit Request 
Requested maximum continuous retarder speed 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 32 rpm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 8,000 rpm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 52992 
SPN 1790 Minimum Continuous Retarder Torque Limit Request 
Requested minimum continuous retarder torque (operating range: -125 to 0%) 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, -125 % offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 % Operational Range: -125 to 0% 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 52992 
SPN 1791 Maximum Continuous Retarder Torque Limit Request 
Requested maximum continuous retarder torque (operating range: -125 to 0%) 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, -125 % offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 % Operational Range: -125 to 0% 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 52992 
SPN 1792 Tractor-Mounted Trailer ABS Warning Signal 
This parameter commands the tractor-mounted trailer ABS optical warning signal. 
00 Off 
01 On
10 Reserved 
11 Take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61441 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 260 -
SPN 1793 ATC/ASR Information Signal 
This parameter commands the ATC/ASR driver information signal, for example a dash lamp. 
00 Off 
01 On
10 Reserved 
11 Take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61441 
SPN 1794 Engine Moment of Inertia 
Moment of inertia for the engine, including items driven full-time by the engine such as fuel, oil and cooling pumps. The 
inertia from the following items are not included: flywheel, alternator, compressor, fan, and other engine-driven 
accessories. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.004 kg-m^2/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 257.02 kg-m^2 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65251 
SPN 1795 Alternator Current (High Range/Resolution) 
This parameter indicates the amount of electrical current output from the alternator of the main vehicle. Alternator Current 
(SPN 115) has a lower range and resolution. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.05 A/bit, -1600 A offset 
Data Range: -1600 to 1612.75 A Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65106 
SPN 1796 ACC Distance Alert Signal 
Signal to indicate to the operator that the ACC system is not able to maintain the distance to the target. Example: Target 
stopping rapidly. This signal may be used to activate warning sounds or indicators. 
00 ACC DAS Not Active 
01 ACC DAS Active 
10 Reserved 
11 Take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65135 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 261 -
SPN 1797 ACC System Shutoff Warning 
Signal to warn the driver of system deactivation due to non-driver actions. Example: Attempting to control vehicle speed 
below or above limits of ACC. This signal may be used to activate warning sounds or indicators. 
00 ACC SSOW Not Active 
01 ACC SSOW Active 
10 Reserved 
11 Take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65135 
SPN 1798 ACC Target Detected 
Signal to indicate to the driver that the ACC system has detected a target.
00 No targets detected 
01 Target detected 
10 Reserved 
11 Take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65135 
SPN 1799 Requested ACC Distance Mode 
The Requested Distance Control Mode to the ACC system from the operators interface. 
The ACC Set Distance Mode (SPN 1589) indicates the selected Distance Control Mode for the ACC system. This 
parameter is the driver requested setting for this. 
000 Requested ACC Distance Mode #1 (largest distance) 
001 Requested ACC Distance Mode #2 
010 Requested ACC Distance Mode #3 
011 Requested ACC Distance Mode #4 
100 Requested ACC Distance Mode #5 (shortest distance) 
101 not defined 
110 error condition 
111 not available 
Data Length: 3 bits 
Resolution: 8 states/3 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 7 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65105 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 262 -
SPN 1800 Battery 1 Temperature 
Temperature of the battery 1. The relation to physical location is determined by the equipment manufacturer. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 deg C/bit, -40 deg C offset 
Data Range: -40 to 210 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65104 
SPN 1801 Battery 2 Temperature 
Temperature of the battery 2. The relation to physical location is determined by the equipment manufacturer. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 deg C/bit, -40 deg C offset 
Data Range: -40 to 210 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65104 
SPN 1802 Engine Intake Manifold 5 Temperature 
Temperature of pre-combustion air found in intake manifold number 5 of engine air supply system. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 deg C/bit, -40 deg C offset 
Data Range: -40 to 210 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65189 
SPN 1803 Engine Intake Manifold 6 Temperature 
Temperature of pre-combustion air found in intake manifold number 6 of engine air supply system. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 deg C/bit, -40 deg C offset 
Data Range: -40 to 210 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65189 
SPN 1804 Engine Start Enable Device 2 
Devices that assist an engine in starting, e.g. intake heaters, ether, or an alternate/secondary starting aid. May be of the 
same type or different than Start Enable Device 1 (SPN 626). Parameter indicating whether the start enable device 2 is 
ON or OFF. 
00 - start enable OFF 
01 - start enable ON 
10 - reserved 
11 - not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64966 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 263 -
SPN 1805 LED Display Mode Control 
This parameter informs the system what the selected Display mode will be. 
0000 - Center On-Grade Display Mode 1 ( 5 CHANNEL ) 
0001 - Offset On-Grade Display Mode
0010 - Center On-Grade Display Mode 2 ( 7 CHANNEL ) 
0011 - 1110 Reserved 
1111 - Not Available or Not Applicable 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65142 
SPN 1806 LED Display Deadband Control 
This parameter informs the system what the selected Display deadband will be. 
0000 +/- 4.5 mm (0.015 feet, 0.18 inches) 
0001 +/- 12 mm (0.040 feet, 0.45 inches) 
0010 +/- 24 mm (0.080 feet, 0.96 inches) 
0011 +/- 5 mm (0.017 feet, 0.2 inches) 
0100 +/- 1 mm (0.003 feet, 0.04 inches) 
0101 - 1110 Reserved 
1111 Not Available or Not applicable 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65142 
(R) SPN 1807 Steering Wheel Angle 
The main operator`s steering wheel angle (on the steering column, not the actual wheel angle). The vehicle being 
steered to the left (counterclockwise) results in a positive steering wheel angle. This is the yaw angle of the steering 
wheel with the z-axis along the centerline of the steering column. This parameter is defined according to a Z-Up axis 
system and the sign of the value is in accordance to the right-hand rule, as specified in SAE J670. As specified in SAE 
J670, a Z-Up Axis System has positive X directed forward, positive Y to the left, and positive Z directed up. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1/1024 rad per bit, -31.374 rad offset 
Data Range: -31.374 to +31.374 rad Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61449 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 264 -
(R) SPN 1808 Yaw Rate 
Indicates the rate of rotation about the vertical axis (i.e. the z-axis). A positive yaw rate signal results when the vehicle 
turns counter-clockwise. This parameter is defined according to a Z-Up axis system and the sign of the value is in 
accordance to the right-hand rule, as specified in SAE J670. As specified in SAE J670, a Z-Up Axis System has positive 
X directed forward, positive Y to the left, and positive Z directed up. See SPN 4985 for an alternate range and resolution 
using a Z-Down Axis System. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1/8192 rad/s per bit, -3.92 rad/s offset 
Data Range: -3.92 to +3.92 rad/s Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61449 
(R) SPN 1809 Lateral Acceleration 
Indicates a lateral acceleration of the vehicle (the component of vehicle acceleration vector along the Y-axis). A positive 
lateral acceleration signal results when the vehicle is accelerated to the left. This parameter is defined according to a ZUp axis system and the sign of the value is in accordance to the right-hand rule, as specified in SAE J670. As specified in 
SAE J670, a Z-Up Axis System has positive X directed forward, positive Y to the left, and positive Z directed up. See 
SPN 5347 for an alternate range and resolution. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1/2048 m/s² per bit, -15.687 m/s² offset 
Data Range: -15.687 to +15.687 m/s² Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61449 
(R) SPN 1810 Longitudinal Acceleration 
Indicates the longitudinal acceleration of the vehicle. A positive longitudinal acceleration signal results when the vehicle 
speed increases, regardless of driving the vehicle forward or backward. This parameter is applicable to vehicle speed 
measurement systems, such as passive wheel speed sensors, that are not capable of determining the direction of the 
vehicle motion. See SPN 5348 for an alternate longitudinal acceleration. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.1 m/s² per bit, -12.5 m/s² offset 
Data Range: -12.5 to +12.5 m/s² Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61449 
SPN 1811 Steering Wheel Turn Counter 
Indicates number of steering wheel turns, absolute position or relative position at ignition on. Positive values indicate left 
turns. 
Data Length: 6 bits 
Resolution: 1 turn/bit, -32 turns offset 
Data Range: -32 to 29 turns Operational Range: -10 to +10 Turns 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61449 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 265 -
SPN 1812 Steering Wheel Angle Sensor Type 
Indicates whether the steering wheel angle sensor is capable of absolute measuring of the number of steering wheel 
turns or not (relative measuring to position at ignition on). 
00 Relative measuring principle 
01 Absolute measuring principle 
10 Reserved 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61449 
SPN 1813 VDC Information Signal 
This parameter commands the VDC information signal, for example a dash lamp. 
00 Off 
01 On 
10 Reserved 
11 Don't care/Take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65103 
SPN 1814 VDC Fully Operational 
Signal that indicates whether VDC is fully operational or whether its functionality is reduced by a permanent or temporary 
(e.g. low voltage) defect, by intended action (e.g. disabled by a switch or during special diagnostic procedures), not 
configured or not yet fully initialized (e.g. missing initialization or configuration message). VDC contains ROP and YC. 
00 Not fully operational 
01 Fully operational 
10 Reserved 
11 Don't care/Take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65103 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 266 -
SPN 1815 VDC brake light request 
Indicates whether VDC requests to turn the vehicle brake lights on 
00 Turn brake light not on 
01 Turn brake light on 
10 Reserved 
11 Don't care/Take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65103 
SPN 1816 ROP Engine Control active 
State Signal which indicates that the Roll Over Prevention (ROP) has commanded engine control to be active. Within the 
physical limits, ROP attempts to prevent rolling over of the vehicle. Active means that ROP actually tries to control the 
engine. This state signal is independent of other control commands to the engine which may have higher priority. 
00 ROP engine control passive but installed 
01 ROP engine control active 
10 Reserved 
11 Don't care/Take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65103 
SPN 1817 YC Engine Control active 
State Signal which indicates that the Yaw Control (YC) has commanded engine control to be active. Within the physical 
limits, YC attempts to prevent yawing of the vehicle. Active means that YC actually tries to control the engine. This state 
signal is independent of other control commands to the engine which may have higher priority. 
00 YC engine control passive but installed 
01 YC engine control active 
10 Reserved 
11 Don't care/Take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65103 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 267 -
SPN 1818 ROP Brake Control active 
State signal which indicates that Roll over Prevention (ROP) has activated brake control. Active means that ROP actually 
controls wheel brake pressure at one or more wheels of the vehicle or vehicle combination. Within the physical limits, 
ROP attempts to prevent rolling over of the vehicle. 
00 ROP brake control passive but installed 
01 ROP brake control active 
10 Reserved 
11 Don't care/Take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65103 
SPN 1819 YC Brake Control active 
State signal which indicates that Yaw Control (YC) has activated brake control. Active means that YC actually controls 
wheel brake pressure at one or more wheels of the vehicle or vehicle combination. Within the physical limits, YC attempts 
to prevent yawing of the vehicle. 
00 YC brake control passive but installed 
01 YC brake control active 
10 Reserved 
11 Don't care/Take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65103 
SPN 1820 Ramp / Wheel Chair Lift Position 
Signal which indicates the actual position of the ramp / wheel chair lift. 
00 Inside bus 
01 Outside bus 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65102 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 268 -
SPN 1821 Position of doors 
Signal which indicates the actual position of the doors. 
0000 At least 1 door is open 
0001 Closing last door 
0010 All doors closed 
0011-1101 Not defined 
1110 Error 
1111 Not available 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65102 
SPN 1822 Lift Axle 2 Position 
Signal which indicates the position / load condition of lift axle / tag axle #2. Numbering of lift/tag axles starts at front axle.
00 Lift axle position down / tag axle laden 
01 Lift axle position up / tag axle unladen 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65114 
SPN 1823 Rear Axle in Bumper Range 
Signal which indicates that the vehicle height at the rear axle (SPNs 1723 and 1724) is within the bumper range. 
00 Actual level out of bumper range 
01 Actual level within bumper range 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65114 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 269 -
SPN 1824 Front Axle in Bumper Range 
Signal which indicates that the vehicle height at the front axle (SPNs 1721 and 1722) is within the bumper range. 
00 Actual level out of bumper range 
01 Actual level within bumper range 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65114 
SPN 1825 Suspension Remote control 2 
Signal which indicates that the suspension system is controlled by remote control #2. Remote control is an external unit to 
operate the suspension system. 
00 Not active 
01 Active 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65114 
SPN 1826 Suspension Remote Control 1 
Signal which indicates that the suspension system is controlled by remote control #1. Remote control is an external unit to 
operate the suspension system. 
00 Not active 
01 Active 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65114 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 270 -
SPN 1827 Suspension Control Refusal Information 
Signal which indicates that the air suspension control cannot perform a request due to the operating conditions. It also 
provides a reason for the refusal. 
0000 Actual request not refused 
0001 Axle load limit reached (load transfer) 
0010 Would exceed axle load limit (tag axle) 
0011 Bogie differential not locked 
0100 Above speed limit 
0101 Below speed limit 
0110 General reject; I.e. no specified reason applies 
0111 Requested level not available 
1000 - 1101 Not defined 
1110 Error 
1111 Not available 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65114 
SPN 1828 Lift Axle 2 Position Command 
Signal to command the position / load condition of lift / tag axle #2. Numbering of lift/tag axles starts at front axle. 
00 Lift axle position down / tag axle laden 
01 Lift axle position up / tag axle unladen 
10 Reserved 
11 Don't care/take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 53760 
SPN 1829 Kneeling Command - Rear Axle 
Command signal to activate the kneeling functionality at the rear axle of the vehicle. 
00 Deactivate kneeling 
01 Activate kneeling 
10 Reserved 
11 Don't care/take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 53760 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 271 -
SPN 1830 Kneeling Command - Front Axle 
Command signal to activate the kneeling functionality at the front axle of the vehicle 
00 Deactivate kneeling 
01 Activate kneeling 
10 Reserved 
11 Don't care/take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 53760 
SPN 1831 Electronic Shock Absorber Control Mode - Lift/Tag Axle 
Signal which indicates the current mode of operation of the electronic shock absorber control at the lift/tag axle. 
00 Normal operation dampers passive 
01 Normal operation dampers active 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65111 
SPN 1832 Electronic Shock Absorber Control Mode - Rear Axle 
Signal which indicates the current mode of operation of the electronic shock absorber control at the rear axle. 
00 Normal operation dampers passive 
01 Normal operation dampers active 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65111 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 272 -
SPN 1833 Electronic Shock Absorber Control Mode - Front Axle 
Signal which indicates the current mode of operation of the electronic shock absorber control at the front axle. 
00 Normal operation dampers passive 
01 Normal operation dampers active 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65111 
SPN 1834 Engine Total Average Fuel Rate 
Average fuel rate, equal to total fuel used divided by total engine hours, over the life of the engine 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.05 L/h per bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3,212.75 L/h Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65101 
SPN 1835 Engine Total Average Fuel Economy 
Average fuel economy, equal to total vehicle distance divided by total fuel used, over the life of the engine 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1/512 km/L per bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 125.5 km/L Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65101 
SPN 1836 Trailer ABS Status 
State signal which indicates that ABS in the trailer is actively controlling the brakes. A message is sent to the tractor from
the trailer (i.e. by PLC). The receiving device in the tractor transfers this information to the J1939 network. At the 
beginning of power on the message is sent by the trailer to indicate if this status information is supported. Timeout of the 
trailer ABS active can be done by monitoring of the Trailer warning light information. 
00 Trailer ABS Status Information Available But Not Active 
01 Trailer ABS Active 
10 Reserved 
11 Trailer ABS Status Information Not Available or Parameter Not Supported 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61441 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 273 -
SPN 1837 Convoy Driving Lamp Select 
Black Out Convoy Driving Lamp Selection 
00 Off 
01 On 
10 Reserved 
11 Not Supported 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65100 
SPN 1838 Convoy Lamp Select 
Black Out Convoy Lamp Selection 
00 Off 
01 On 
10 Reserved 
11 Not Supported 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65100 
SPN 1839 Front Black Out Marker Lamp Select 
Front Black Out Marker Lamp Selection 
00 Off 
01 On 
10 Reserved 
11 Not Supported 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65100 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 274 -
SPN 1840 Rear Black Out Marker Select 
Rear Black Out Marker Selection 
00 Off 
01 On 
10 Reserved 
11 Not Supported 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65100 
SPN 1841 Black Out Brake/Stop Lamp Select 
Black Out Brake/Stop Lamp Selection 
00 Off 
01 On 
10 Reserved 
11 Not Supported 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65100 
SPN 1842 Black Out Work Lamp Select 
Black Out Work Lamp Selection 
00 Off 
01 On 
10 Reserved 
11 Not Supported 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65100 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 275 -
SPN 1843 Night Vision Illuminator Select 
Night Vision Illuminator Selection 
00 Off 
01 On 
10 Reserved 
11 Not Supported 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65100 
SPN 1844 Operators Black Out Intensity Selection 
Operators Selection of lamp intensity in black out mode. This parameter provides the operators selected illumination 
intensity as a percentage of available full scale. This parameter would be typically used as a dash or instrument cluster 
intensity adjustment. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65100 
SPN 1845 Transmission Torque Limit 
Parameter provided to the engine from the transmission as a torque limit to be invoked by the engine in the event that 
J1939 communication with the transmission is lost. 
The intention is to protect transmissions that use a continuous torque limit during torque converter mode or operation in 
specific lower gears, where stall or drivetrain torque may reach levels higher than the gearbox capacity. If communication 
is lost during torque limited operation, unrestricted engine torque output could harm the transmission. 
It is recommended that engines use reception of the ETC#1 message as a transmission “heartbeat”. In the event that the 
ETC#1 message is not received in a time period of 5 times its’ broadcast rate (5 x 10 ms = 50 ms), the engine should 
invoke a torque limit holding the engine to less than or equal to the value of the Transmission Torque Limit parameter.
The engine may release the limit when transmission-to-engine communication is re-established. 
A value of 0xFF00 to 0xFFFF indicates that no transmission torque limit is desired. 
It is expected that the engine will record this torque value in non-volatile memory and will include this in the engine 
configuration PGN as parameter Engine Default Torque Limit (SPN 1846) 
If the engine observes change in this parameter value on power-up, the engine should record the new value. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1 Nm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 64,255 Nm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65099 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 276 -
SPN 1846 Engine Default Torque Limit 
Companion parameter to Transmission Torque Limit (SPN 1845). This “echo” parameter provides confirmation to the 
transmission that the engine has received and will invoke the requested Transmission Torque Limit in the event that 
J1939 communication is lost between the two devices. 
If the engine supports this protection logic, the Engine Default Torque Limit parameter should be set equal to the 
Transmission Torque Limit parameter as received in the Transmission Configuration 2 message (PGN 65099).
Otherwise, an Engine Default Torque Limit value of FF00 to FFFF indicates that no engine default torque limit has been 
received or set. 
The intention is to protect transmissions that use a continuous torque limit during torque converter mode or operation in 
specific lower gears, where stall or drivetrain torque may reach levels higher than the gearbox capacity. If communication 
is lost during torque limited operation, unrestricted engine torque output could harm the transmission. 
It is recommended that engines use reception of the ETC#1 message as a transmission “heartbeat”. In the event that the 
ETC#1 message is not received in a time period of 5 times its’ broadcast rate (5 x 10 ms = 50 ms), the engine should 
invoke a torque limit holding the engine to less than or equal to the value of the Transmission Torque Limit parameter.
The engine may release the limit when engine-to-transmission communication is re-established. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1 Nm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 64,255 Nm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65251 
SPN 1849 Transmission Requested Range Display Flash State 
State signal indicating a transmission request for the display of the Transmission Requested Range parameter (SPN 162) 
to flash or not to flash. The ‘Transmission Requested Range Display Flash State’ indicator can be utilized by (but not 
limited to) the shift console, instrument cluster, or cab display. Definition of the cause of this state is at the discretion of
the transmission manufacturer. The flash period shall be 700 ms @ 50% duty cycle. 
Transmission manufacturers may want to flash the Transmission Requested Range display depending on certain events. 
 It could be because a gear could not be attained, or because fluid is low, etc. Indicator should be on for 350 ms and off 
for 350 ms. 
Transmissions supporting both this parameter and the Transmission Requested Range Display Blank
State should treat the active states of these parameters as mutually exclusive; both parameters should not indicate 
"active" at the same time. 
00 Inactive; Transmission Requested Range display should not be flashing 
01 Active; Transmission Requested Range display should be flashing 
10 Reserved 
11 Take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65098 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 277 -
SPN 1850 Transmission Requested Range Display Blank State 
State signal indicating a transmission request for the display of the Transmission Requested Range parameter (SPN162) 
to be blanked or not blanked. The ‘Transmission Requested Range Display Blank State’ indicator can be utilized by (but 
not limited to) the shift console, instrument cluster, or cab display. Definition of the cause of this state is at the discretion
of the transmission manufacturer 
Transmission manufacturers may want to blank the Transmission Requested Range display depending on certain events. 
 Typically it is an indication of a shift selector problem. 
Transmissions supporting both this parameter and the Transmission Requested Range Display Flash
State should treat the active states of these parameters as mutually exclusive; both parameters should not indicate 
"active" at the same time. 
00 Inactive; Transmission Requested Range display should not be blanked 
01 Active; Transmission Requested Range display should be blanked 
10 Reserved 
11 Take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65098 
(R) SPN 1851 Transmission Shift Inhibit Indicator 
State signal indicating a transmission request for the Shift Inhibit Indicator to be active or inactive. The shift inhibit 
indicator can be of lamp or text form, located on (but not limited to) the shift console, instrument cluster, or cab display.
Definition of the cause of the ‘range inhibit’ state is at the discretion of the transmission manufacturer. 
Transmission manufacturers may want to indicate that they currently cannot make a requested shift. This could be due to 
inappropriate vehicle speed or other restrictions. 
Distinctions in meaning between the continuous and flashing are left to the transmission manufacturer. 
00 Inactive; shift is not inhibited 
01 Active (on continuously); shift is inhibited 
10 Active (flashing) 
11 Take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65098 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 278 -
SPN 1852 Transmission Mode 1 
Indicates whether transmission mode 1 is enabled. Modes are manufacturer specific and are not necessarily mutually 
exclusive. See also SPN 2536. 
00 Disable 
01 Enable 
10 Reserved 
11 Take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 256 
SPN 1853 Transmission Mode 2 
Indicates whether transmission mode 2 is enabled. Modes are manufacturer specific and are not necessarily mutually 
exclusive. See also SPN 2537. 
00 Disable 
01 Enable 
10 Reserved 
11 Take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 256 
SPN 1854 Transmission Mode 3 
Indicates whether transmission mode 3 is enabled. Modes are manufacturer specific and are not necessarily mutually 
exclusive. See also SPN 2538. 
00 Disable 
01 Enable 
10 Reserved 
11 Take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 256 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 279 -
SPN 1855 Transmission Mode 4 
Indicates whether transmission mode 4 is enabled. Modes are manufacturer specific and are not necessarily mutually 
exclusive. See also SPN 2539. 
00 Disable 
01 Enable 
10 Reserved 
11 Take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 256 
SPN 1856 Seat Belt Switch 
State of switch used to determine if Seat Belt is buckled 
00 NOT Buckled 
01 OK - Seat Belt is buckled 
10 Error - Switch state cannot be determined 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 57344 
SPN 1857 Winch Oil Pressure Switch 
State of switch used to determine if Winch Oil Pressure is above desired minimum 
00 NOT OK- Oil pressure is too low 
01 OK - Oil pressure is above minimum 
10 Error - Switch state cannot be determined 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65128 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 280 -
SPN 2347 High Beam Head Light Command 
Command to activate or de-activate the tractor high beam head light lamps.
00 De-activate 
01 Activate 
10 Reserved 
11 Don’t Care 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65089 
SPN 2348 High Beam Head Light Data 
This parameter provides measured data from the tractor high beam head light lamps.
00 De-activated 
01 Activated 
10 Fault Detected 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65088 
SPN 2349 Low Beam Head Light Command 
Command to activate or de-activate the tractor low beam head light lamps.
00 De-activate 
01 Activate 
10 Reserved 
11 Don’t Care 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65089 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 281 -
SPN 2350 Low Beam Head Light Data 
This parameter provides measured data from the tractor low beam head light lamps.
00 De-activated 
01 Activated 
10 Fault Detected 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65088 
SPN 2351 Alternate Beam Head Light Command 
Command to activate or de-activate the tractor alternate head lights (only low beam is available on alternate head lights).
The alternate position lights are intended for use with loader and snow plows that tend to block the primary head lights. 
00 De-activate 
01 Activate 
10 Reserved 
11 Don’t Care 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65089 
SPN 2352 Alternate Beam Head Light Data 
This parameter provides measured data from the tractor alternate beam head light lamps.
00 De-activated 
01 Activated 
10 Fault Detected 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65088 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 282 -
SPN 2353 Tractor Front Low Mounted Work Lights Command 
Command to activate or de-activate the tractor front low mounted work lights. 
00 De-activate 
01 Activate 
10 Reserved 
11 Don’t Care 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65089 
SPN 2354 Tractor Front Low Mounted Work Lights 
This parameter provides measured data from the tractor front low mounted work lights.
00 De-activated 
01 Activated 
10 Fault Detected 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65088 
SPN 2355 Tractor Front High Mounted Work Lights Command 
Command to activate or de-activate the tractor front high mounted work lights. 
00 De-activate 
01 Activate 
10 Reserved 
11 Don’t Care 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65089 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 283 -
SPN 2356 Tractor Front High Mounted Work Lights 
This parameter provides measured data from the tractor front high mounted work lights.
00 De-activated 
01 Activated 
10 Fault Detected 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65088 
SPN 2357 Tractor Underside Mounted Work Lights Command 
Command to activate or de-activate the tractor underside mounted work lights. 
00 De-activate 
01 Activate 
10 Reserved 
11 Don’t Care 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65089 
SPN 2358 Tractor Underside Mounted Work Lights 
This parameter provides measured data from the tractor underside mounted work lights.
00 De-activated 
01 Activated 
10 Fault Detected 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65088 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 284 -
SPN 2359 Tractor Rear Low Mounted Work Lights Command 
Command to activate or de-activate the tractor rear low mounted work lights. 
00 De-activate 
01 Activate 
10 Reserved 
11 Don’t Care 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65089 
SPN 2360 Tractor Rear Low Mounted Work Lights 
This parameter provides measured data from the tractor rear low mounted work lights. 
00 De-activated 
01 Activated 
10 Fault Detected 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65088 
SPN 2361 Tractor Rear High Mounted Work Lights Command 
Command to activate or de-activate the tractor rear high mounted work lights. 
00 De-activate 
01 Activate 
10 Reserved 
11 Don’t Care 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65089 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 285 -
SPN 2362 Tractor Rear High Mounted Work Lights 
This parameter provides measured data from the tractor rear high mounted work lights.
00 De-activated 
01 Activated 
10 Fault Detected 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65088 
SPN 2363 Tractor Side Low Mounted Work Lights Command 
Command to activate or de-activate the tractor side low mounted work lights. 
00 De-activate 
01 Activate 
10 Reserved 
11 Don’t Care 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65089 
SPN 2364 Tractor Side Low Mounted Work Lights 
This parameter provides measured data from the tractor side low mounted work lights.
00 De-activated 
01 Activated 
10 Fault Detected 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65088 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 286 -
SPN 2365 Tractor Side High Mounted Work Lights Command 
Command to activate or de-activate the tractor side high mounted work lights. 
00 De-activate 
01 Activate 
10 Reserved 
11 Don’t Care 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65089 
SPN 2366 Tractor Side High Mounted Work Lights 
This parameter provides measured data from the tractor side high mounted work lights.
00 De-activated 
01 Activated 
10 Fault Detected 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65088 
SPN 2367 Left Turn Signal Lights Command 
Command to activate or de-activate left turn signal lights on the tractor and all connected implements 
00 De-activate 
01 Activate 
10 Reserved 
11 Don’t Care 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65089 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 287 -
SPN 2368 Left Turn Signal Lights 
This parameter provides measured data from the tractor and attached implement left turn signal lights. 
00 De-activated 
01 Activated 
10 Fault Detected 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65088 
SPN 2369 Right Turn Signal Lights Command 
Command to activate or de-activate right turn signal lights on the tractor and all connected implements 
00 De-activate 
01 Activate 
10 Reserved 
11 Don’t Care 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65089 
SPN 2370 Right Turn Signal Lights 
This parameter provides measured data from the tractor and attached implement right turn signal lights. 
00 De-activated 
01 Activated 
10 Fault Detected 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65088 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 288 -
SPN 2371 Left Stop Light Command 
Command to activate or de-activate the tractor and implement left stop lights 
00 De-activate 
01 Activate 
10 Reserved 
11 Don’t Care 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65089 
SPN 2372 Left Stop Light 
This parameter provides measured data from the tractor and attached implement left stop lights. 
00 De-activated 
01 Activated 
10 Fault Detected 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65088 
SPN 2373 Right Stop Light Command 
Command to activate or de-activate the tractor and implement right stop light 
00 De-activate 
01 Activate 
10 Reserved 
11 Don’t Care 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65089 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 289 -
SPN 2374 Right Stop Light 
This parameter provides measured data from the tractor and attached implement right stop lights. 
00 De-activated 
01 Activated 
10 Fault Detected 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65088 
SPN 2375 Center Stop Light Command 
Command to activate or de-activate the tractor and implement center stop light 
00 De-activate 
01 Activate 
10 Reserved 
11 Don’t Care 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65089 
SPN 2376 Center Stop Light 
This parameter provides measured data from the tractor and attached implement center stop lights. 
00 De-activated 
01 Activated 
10 Fault Detected 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65088 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 290 -
SPN 2377 Tractor Marker Light Command 
Command to activate or de-activate tractor and implement front position lights, rear red tail lights, side amber running 
lights, license plate lights and instrument and switch back lights.
00 De-activate 
01 Activate 
10 Reserved 
11 Don’t Care 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65089 
SPN 2378 Tractor Marker Light 
This parameter provides measured data from the tractor and attached implement marker lights, including front position 
lights, rear tail lights, side running lights, license plate lights and instruments and switch back lights. 
00 De-activated 
01 Activated 
10 Fault Detected 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65088 
SPN 2379 Implement Marker Light Command 
Command to activate or de-activate implement front position lights, rear red tail lights, side amber running lights, license 
plate lights and instrument and switch back lights.
00 De-activate 
01 Activate 
10 Reserved 
11 Don’t Care 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65089 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 291 -
SPN 2380 Implement Marker Light 
This parameter provides measured data from an attached implement marker lights, including front position lights, rear tail 
lights, side running lights, license plate lights and instruments and switch back lights. 
00 De-activated 
01 Activated 
10 Fault Detected 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65088 
SPN 2381 Tractor Clearance Light Command 
Command to activate or de-activate the tractor high mounted clearance and center ID lights 
00 De-activate 
01 Activate 
10 Reserved 
11 Don’t Care 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65089 
SPN 2382 Tractor Clearance Light 
This parameter provides measured data from the tractor high mounted clearance and center ID lights. 
00 De-activated 
01 Activated 
10 Fault Detected 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65088 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 292 -
SPN 2383 Implement Clearance Light Command 
Command to activate or de-activate the implement high mounted clearance and lights.
00 De-activate 
01 Activate 
10 Reserved 
11 Don’t Care 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65089 
SPN 2384 Implement Clearance Light 
This parameter provides measured data from an attached implement high mounted clearance lights. 
00 De-activated 
01 Activated 
10 Fault Detected 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65088 
SPN 2385 Rotating Beacon Light Command 
Command to activate or de-activate slow moving vehicle indicator lights on tractor and/or implements. Activation of the 
slow moving vehicle lights implies that the controller should manipulate the lighting as appropriate to provide the slow 
moving vehicle lighting function. 
00 De-activate 
01 Activate 
10 Reserved 
11 Don’t Care 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65089 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 293 -
SPN 2386 Rotating Beacon Light 
This parameter provides measured data from the beacon light on tractor or attached implements. 
00 De-activated 
01 Activated 
10 Fault Detected 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65088 
SPN 2387 Tractor Front Fog Lights Command 
Command to activate or de-activate tractor front fog lights. 
00 De-activate 
01 Activate 
10 Reserved 
11 Don’t Care 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65089 
SPN 2388 Tractor Front Fog Lights 
This parameter provides measured data from the tractor front fog lights. 
00 De-activated 
01 Activated 
10 Fault Detected 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65088 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 294 -
SPN 2389 Rear Fog Light Command 
Command to activate or de-activate tractor or implement rear fog lights.
00 De-activate 
01 Activate 
10 Reserved 
11 Don’t Care 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65089 
SPN 2390 Rear Fog Lights 
This parameter provides measured data from the tractor and/or implement rear fog lights. 
00 De-activated 
01 Activated 
10 Fault Detected 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65088 
SPN 2391 Back Up Light and Alarm Horn Command 
Command to activate or de-activate the back up lights and/ or associated alarm if required 
00 De-activate 
01 Activate 
10 Reserved 
11 Don’t Care 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65089 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 295 -
SPN 2392 Back Up Light and Alarm Horn 
This parameter provides measured data from the back up lights and/ or associated alarm. 
00 De-activated 
01 Activated 
10 Fault Detected 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65088 
SPN 2393 Lighting Data Request Command 
Command to provide a response of the light state 
00 De-activate 
01 Activate 
10 Reserved 
11 Don’t Care 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65089 
SPN 2394 Implement Rear Work Light 
This parameter provides measured data from the implement rear work lamps. 
00 De-activated 
01 Activated 
10 Fault Detected 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65088 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 296 -
SPN 2395 Implement OEM Option 1 Light Command 
Command to activate or de-activate an implement OEM option 1 light. This is provided to meet special needs on 
implements, such as tank inspection or filling lights. 
00 De-activate 
01 Activate 
10 Reserved 
11 Don’t Care 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65089 
SPN 2396 Implement OEM Option 1 Light 
This parameter provides measured data from the implement OEM option 1 light. 
00 De-activated 
01 Activated 
10 Fault Detected 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65088 
SPN 2397 Implement OEM Option 2 Light Command 
Command to activate or de-activate an implement OEM option 2 light. This is provided to meet special needs on 
implements, such as tank inspection or filling lights. 
00 De-activate 
01 Activate 
10 Reserved 
11 Don’t Care 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65089 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 297 -
SPN 2398 Implement OEM Option 2 Light 
This parameter provides measured data from the implement OEM option 2 light. 
00 De-activated 
01 Activated 
10 Fault Detected 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65088 
(R) SPN 2399 Implement Left Facing Work Light Command 
Command to activate or de-activate the left facing work lights toward the left end of the implement. 
00 De-activate 
01 Activate 
10 Reserved 
11 Don’t Care 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65089 
(R) SPN 2400 Implement Left Facing Work Light 
This parameter provides measured data from the left facing work lights toward the left end of the implement. 
00 De-activated 
01 Activated 
10 Fault Detected 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65088 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 298 -
SPN 2401 Implement Right Forward Work Light Command 
Command to activate or de-activate the forward facing work lights toward the right end of the implement. 
00 De-activate 
01 Activate 
10 Reserved 
11 Don’t Care 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65089 
SPN 2402 Implement Right Forward Work Light 
This parameter provides measured data from the forward facing work lights toward the right end of the implement. 
00 De-activated 
01 Activated 
10 Fault Detected 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65088 
SPN 2403 Running Light Command 
Command to activate or de-activate the tractor or powered vehicle running lights. Usually only used for on road vehicles. 
00 De-activate 
01 Activate 
10 Reserved 
11 Don’t Care 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65089 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 299 -
SPN 2404 Running Light 
This parameter provides measured data from the vehicle’s running lights. 
00 De-activated 
01 Activated 
10 Fault Detected 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65088 
SPN 2405 Implement Rear Work Light Command 
Command to activate or de-activate implement rear work lights. (This is also the same as Reversing Lights for truck 
applications.)
00 De-activate 
01 Activate 
10 Reserved 
11 Don’t Care 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65089 
SPN 2406 Implement Right Facing Work Light Command 
Command to activate or de-activate work lights mounted on an implement to illuminate beyond right end of the implement. 
00 De-activate 
01 Activate 
10 Reserved 
11 Don’t Care 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65089 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 300 -
SPN 2407 Implement Right Facing Work Light 
This parameter provides measured data from the work lights mounted on an implement to illuminate beyond right end of 
the implement. 
00 De-activated 
01 Activated 
10 Fault Detected 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65088 
SPN 2432 Engine Demand – Percent Torque 
The requested torque output of the engine by all dynamic internal inputs, including smoke control, noise control and low 
and high speed governing. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, -125 % offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 % Operational Range: -125% to +125% 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 2432 
PGN reference: 61444 
SPN 2433 Engine Exhaust Gas Temperature - Right Manifold 
Temperature of combustion byproducts within the right engine exhaust manifold. Single manifold engines should use 
exhaust temperature (SPN 173). 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65031 
SPN 2434 Engine Exhaust Gas Temperature - Left Manifold 
Temperature of combustion byproducts within the left engine exhaust manifold. Single manifold engines should use 
exhaust temperature (SPN 173). 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65031 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 301 -
SPN 2435 Sea Water Pump Outlet Pressure 
Gauge pressure of liquid found at outlet of sea water pump in sea water cooling system. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 2 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 500 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65172 
SPN 2536 Transmission Mode 1 Indicator 
This state signal is the transmission’s indication that it is operating under transmission mode 1 (SPN 1852) as 
commanded via the TC1 message (PGN 256). The definition of the transmission mode is left to the discretion of the 
transmission manufacturer. 
00 Transmission Mode 1 not active 
01 Transmission Mode 1 Active 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65098 
SPN 2537 Transmission Mode 2 Indicator 
This state signal is the transmission’s indication that it is operating under transmission mode 2 (SPN 1853) as 
commanded via the TC1 message (PGN 256). The definition of the transmission mode is left to the discretion of the 
transmission manufacturer. 
00 Transmission Mode 2 not active 
01 Transmission Mode 2 Active 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65098 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 302 -
SPN 2538 Transmission Mode 3 Indicator 
This state signal is the transmission’s indication that it is operating under transmission mode 3 (SPN 1854) as 
commanded via the TC1 message (PGN 256). The definition of the transmission mode is left to the discretion of the 
transmission manufacturer. 
00 Transmission Mode 3 not active 
01 Transmission Mode 3 Active 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65098 
SPN 2539 Transmission Mode 4 Indicator 
This state signal is the transmission’s indication that it is operating under transmission mode 4 (SPN 1855) as 
commanded via the TC1 message (PGN 256). The definition of the transmission mode is left to the discretion of the 
transmission manufacturer. 
00 Transmission Mode 4 not active 
01 Transmission Mode 4 Active 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65098 
SPN 2576 Laser Receiver Type 
Identifies which type of Laser Receiver transmitted the message. 
0 = Reserved
1 = Linear Laser Receiver 
2 = 1 Meter Survey Receiver 
3 = 2 Meter Survey Receiver 
4 = 2.5 Meter Survey Receiver 
5-250 = Reserved 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 count/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 Operational Range: 1-4 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65141 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 303 -
SPN 2577 Display Deadbands 
Sets Display Deadbands mode. 
0000 - Narrow = +/- 4.5mm 
0001 - Standard = +/- 12mm 
0010 - Wide = +/- 24mm 
0011 - 1110 Reserved 
1111 Not Available 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65142 
SPN 2578 LED Pattern Control 
Sets LED Pattern control mode on laser leveling systems. 
0000 - 5 Channel 
0001 - Offset 
0010 - 7 Channel 
0011 - 1110 Reserved 
1111 Not Available 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65142 
SPN 2579 Net Battery Current (High Range/Resolution) 
Net flow of electrical current into/out-of the battery or batteries. This parameter is the high range and resolution of SPN 
114 - Net Battery Current. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.05 A/bit, -1600 A offset 
Data Range: -1600 to 1612.75 A Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65106 
SPN 2580 Hydraulic Brake Pressure Circuit 1 
Gage hydraulic pressure in circuit 1 of the hydraulic brake system 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 100 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 25 MPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64998 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 304 -
SPN 2581 Hydraulic Brake Pressure Circuit 2 
Gage hydraulic pressure in circuit 2 of the hydraulic brake system 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 100 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 25 MPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64998 
SPN 2582 Hydraulic Brake Pressure Supply State Circuit 1 
Signal which indicates whether the hydraulic brake pressure supply of circuit 1 is reliable; that is, able to support 
continued braking. 
00 Supply is not reliable 
01 Supply is reliable 
10 Error indicator 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64998 
SPN 2583 Hydraulic Brake Pressure Supply State Circuit 2 
Signal which indicates whether the hydraulic brake pressure supply of circuit 2 is reliable; that is, able to support 
continued braking. 
00 Supply is not reliable 
01 Supply is reliable 
10 Error indicator 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64998 
SPN 2584 Hydraulic Brake Pressure Warning State Circuit 1 
Signal which indicates whether the hydraulic brake pressure of circuit 1 is below the warning level 
00 Pressure level sufficient 
01 Pressure level below warning level 
10 Error indicator 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64998 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 305 -
SPN 2585 Hydraulic Brake Pressure Warning State Circuit 2 
Signal which indicates whether the hydraulic brake pressure of circuit 2 is below the warning level 
00 Pressure level sufficient 
01 Pressure level below warning level 
10 Error indicator 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64998 
SPN 2586 Tire Air Leakage Rate 
The pressure loss rate of a tire. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 Pa/s per bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 Pa/s to 6425.5 Pa/s Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65268 
SPN 2587 Tire Pressure Threshold Detection 
Signal indicating the pressure level of the tire. The levels defined represent different pressure conditions of the tire: 
000 Extreme over pressure - The tire pressure is at a level where the safety of the vehicle may be jeopardised. 
001 Over pressure - The tire pressure is higher than the pressure defined by the vehicle or tire manufacturer. 
010 No warning pressure - The tire pressure is within the thresholds defined by the vehicle or tire manufacturer. 
011 Under pressure - The tire pressure is lower than the pressure defined by the vehicle or tire manufacturer. 
100 Extreme under pressure - The tire pressure is at a level where the safety of the vehicle may be jeopardised. 
101 Not defined 
110 Error indicator 
111 Not available 
Data Length: 3 bits 
Resolution: 8 states/3 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 7 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65268 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 306 -
SPN 2588 Maximum Vehicle Speed Limit 1 
The lowest Maximum Vehicle Speed Limit. This value is the similar to SPN 74. However, SPN 74 was not specifically 
defined to convey the applied vehicle speed limit or what was possible to be applied. This new SPN is the lowest vehicle 
speed limit that is possible. Additionally, the lowest vehicle speed limit shall be applied when the J1939 network is no 
longer providing input regarding the Selected Maximum Vehicle Speed Limit. Exceptions to this exist when the device 
performing the maximum vehicle speed limiting function has methods of selecting the thresholds separately from the 
Selected Maximum Vehicle Speed Limit parameter. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 km/h per bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 km/h Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64997 
SPN 2589 Maximum Vehicle Speed Limit 2 
The highest of the two lowest vehicle speed limits 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 km/h per bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 km/h Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64997 
SPN 2590 Maximum Vehicle Speed Limit 3 
The highest of the three lowest vehicle speed limits 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 km/h per bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 km/h Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64997 
SPN 2591 Maximum Vehicle Speed Limit 4 
The highest of the four lowest vehicle speed limits 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 km/h per bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 km/h Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64997 
SPN 2592 Maximum Vehicle Speed Limit 5 
The highest of the five lowest vehicle speed limits 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 km/h per bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 km/h Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64997 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 307 -
SPN 2593 Maximum Vehicle Speed Limit 6 
The highest of the six lowest vehicle speed limits 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 km/h per bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 km/h Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64997 
SPN 2594 Maximum Vehicle Speed Limit 7 
The highest of the seven lowest vehicle speed limits 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 km/h per bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 km/h Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64997 
SPN 2595 Applied Vehicle Speed Limit 
The vehicle speed limit in effect. 
251 (0xFB) is used to indicate that a maximum vehicle speed limit is not selected. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 km/h per bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 km/h Operational Range: 0 to 250 km/h. 251 (0xFB) is used to 
indicate that a maximum vehicle speed 
limit is not selected. 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64997 
SPN 2596 Selected Maximum Vehicle Speed Limit 
User selected maximum vehicle speed. If one is selected, then this SPN must equal one of the maximum vehicle speeds 
#1-#7 from PGN 64997 - Maximum Vehicle Speed Limit Status . If different maximum vehicle speed requests are present 
from different devices, the lowest requested value should be used. 
0 is used to indicate that a maximum vehicle speed is not selected. 1 through 7 are valid selectable speed limits. 8 
through 250 are not allowed. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 count/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 Operational Range: 0 is used to indicate that a maximum 
vehicle speed is not selected. 1 
through 7 are valid selectable speed 
limits. 8 through 250 are not allowed. 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 57344 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 308 -
(R) SPN 2597 Implement Left Forward Work Light Command 
Command to activate or de-activate work lights mounted on an implement to illuminate beyond left end of the implement. 
00 De-activate 
01 Activate 
10 Reserved 
11 Don’t Care 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65089 
(R) SPN 2598 Implement Left Forward Work Light 
This parameter provides measured data from the work lights mounted on an implement to illuminate the forward left end 
of the implement. 
00 De-activate 
01 Activate 
10 Fault Detected 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65088 
SPN 2599 Fire Apparatus Pump Engagement 
The measured status of the pump used to provide water in fire fighting apparatus for distribution of water through water 
cannons or fire hoses. 
00 Pump not engaged 
01 Pump engaged 
10 Error 
11 Not available or not installed 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61448 
SPN 2600 Payload Percentage 
The current payload of the equipment, reported as a percentage of the equipment's rated payload limit. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64996 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 309 -
SPN 2601 Travel Velocity Control Position 
The position of the travel velocity control component reported as a percentage of the control's full displacement in each 
direction respectively. Positive position values indicate forward travel direction; negative position values indicate reverse,
or backward, travel direction; and zero (0) percent position indicates the control device is in the neutral position. Higher 
percent for a particular travel direction indicates a higher desired travel speed in that direction. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, -125 % offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64995 
SPN 2602 Hydraulic Oil Level 
This parameter indicates the level of the hydraulic fluid in tank as a ratio of current volume to total tank volume. This 
parameter is intended for reporting the hydraulic fluid level in the system tank or reservoir. This hydraulic fluid is for the
entire hydraulics system of a piece of equipment. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65128 
SPN 2603 Pneumatic Supply Pressure Request 
Command signal to influence the pneumatic pressure in the main reservoir. This parameter is the setpoint for the 
parameter SPN 46. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 8 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 2,000 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64994 
SPN 2604 Parking and/or Trailer Air Pressure Request 
Command signal to influence the pneumatic pressure in the circuit or reservoir for the parking brake and/or the trailer 
supply. This parameter is the setpoint for the parameter SPN 1086. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 8 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 2,000 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64994 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 310 -
SPN 2605 Service Brake Air Pressure Request, Circuit #1 
Command signal to influence the pneumatic pressure in the service brake circuit or reservoir #1. This parameter is the 
setpoint for the parameter SPN 1087. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 8 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 2,000 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64994 
SPN 2606 Service Brake Air Pressure Request, Circuit #2 
Command signal to influence the pneumatic pressure in the service brake circuit or reservoir #2. This parameter is the 
setpoint for the parameter SPN 1088. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 8 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 2,000 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64994 
SPN 2607 Auxiliary Equipment Supply Pressure Request 
Command signal to influence the pneumatic pressure in the auxiliary circuit. This parameter is the setpoint for the 
parameter SPN 1089. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 8 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 2,000 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64994 
SPN 2608 Air Suspension Supply Pressure Request 
Command signal to influence the pneumatic pressure in the circuit for the electronically controlled air suspension system. 
 This parameter is the setpoint for the parameter SPN 1090. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 8 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 2,000 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64994 
SPN 2609 Cab A/C Refrigerant Compressor Outlet Pressure 
This is the gage pressure at the compressor outlet in the cab air conditioning system. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 16 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 4000 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64993 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 311 -
SPN 2610 Solar Intensity Percent 
This is the solar radiation (power density) falling on the vehicle in percent of the maximum sensor value (SPN 2611).
Currently this is in the infra-red spectrum. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64992 
SPN 2611 Solar Sensor Maximum 
This is the maximum value which can be reported by the sensor for the solar intensity. (This is a configuration parameter) 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 mW/cm^2 per bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 mW/cm^2 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64992 
SPN 2612 Front Wheel Drive Actuator Status 
Feedback on the front wheel drive actuator. 
00 Front Wheel Drive Actuator not engaged 
01 Front Wheel Drive Actuator engaged 
10 Error 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64991 
SPN 2613 Drive Axle Lube Pressure 
The drive axle lubricant pressure with location determined by Drive Axle Location (SPN 930). 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 4 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 1000 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65273 
SPN 2614 Steering Axle Lube Pressure 
The steering axle lubricant pressure. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 4 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 1000 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65273 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 312 -
SPN 2615 Engine Throttle Synchronization Mode Status 
The status of the Throttle Synchronization Mode. Throttle Synchronization Mode is used to indicate which throttle, if any, 
is currently being used for the synchronized throttle.
0000 Not Synchronized 
0001 Synchronized Center 
0010 Synchronized Port 
0011 Synchronized Starboard 
0100 Synchronized Master 
0101-1110 Reserved 
1111 Take no action 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64988 
SPN 2616 Trolling Mode Status 
The status of the Trolling Mode. Trolling mode limits the top speed. Full range travel of the throttle level spans from low 
idle engine speed to maximum trolling speed. 
00 Trolling mode is OFF. 
01 Trolling mode is ACTIVE. 
10 Reserved 
11 Take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64988 
SPN 2617 Slow Vessel Mode Status 
The status of the Slow Vessel Mode. Slow Vessel Mode puts the engine in a lower-than-normal low idle speed during 
docking or other slow vessel operations. 
00 Slow vessel mode is OFF. 
01 Slow vessel mode is ACTIVE. 
10 Reserved 
11 Take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64988 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 313 -
SPN 2629 Engine Turbocharger 1 Compressor Outlet Temperature 
Temperature of the air exiting the turbocharger 1 compressor outlet 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64979 
SPN 2630 Engine Charge Air Cooler 1 Outlet Temperature 
Temperature of combustion air after it exits from the Charge Air Cooler 1 but before any mixing of recirculated exhaust 
gas.
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65129 
SPN 2631 Engine Charge Air Cooler Outlet Pressure 
Measures pressure of air at outlet from charge air cooler 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 2 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 500 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64938 
SPN 2659 Engine Exhaust Gas Recirculation 1 (EGR1) Mass Flow Rate 
Flow rate of gas through the EGR system. Flow rate of the exhaust gas being recirculated into the combustion air. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.05 kg/h per bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3212.75 kg/h Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 27 
PGN reference: 61450 
SPN 2660 Joystick 1 X-Axis Position 
The position of the joystick in the relative motion of travel from the neutral position. Position value of 0 is Neutral and 
position value 1000 (100%) is the end of linear zone. Value of 1022 indicates an error has occurred. 
Data Length: 10 bits 
Resolution: 0.1 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 102 % Operational Range: 0.0 to 100.0% 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64982 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 314 -
SPN 2661 Joystick 1 Y-Axis Position 
The position of the joystick in the relative motion of travel from the neutral position. Position value of 0 is Neutral and 
position value 1000 (100%) is the end of linear zone. Value of 1022 indicates an error has occurred. 
Data Length: 10 bits 
Resolution: 0.1 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 102 % Operational Range: 0.0 to 100.0% 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64982 
SPN 2662 Joystick 1 Grip X-Axis Position 
The position of the joystick grip in the relative motion of travel from the neutral position. Position value of 0 is Neutral and
position value 1000 (100%) is the end of linear zone. Value of 1022 indicates an error has occurred. 
Data Length: 10 bits 
Resolution: 0.1 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 102 % Operational Range: 0.0 to 100.0% 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64983 
SPN 2663 Joystick 1 Grip Y-Axis Position 
The position of the joystick grip in the relative motion of travel from the neutral position. Position value of 0 is Neutral and
position value 1000 (100%) is the end of linear zone. Value of 1022 indicates an error has occurred. 
Data Length: 10 bits 
Resolution: 0.1 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 102 % Operational Range: 0.0 to 100.0% 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64983 
SPN 2664 Joystick 1 Theta-Axis Position 
The position of the joystick in the relative motion of travel from the neutral position. Position value of 0 is Neutral and 
position value 1000 (100%) is the end of linear zone. Value of 1022 indicates an error has occurred. 
Data Length: 10 bits 
Resolution: 0.1 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 102 % Operational Range: 0.0 to 100.0% 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64983 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 315 -
SPN 2665 Joystick 1 X-Axis Lever Right Positive Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is on the positive travel side (forward, right, clockwise, up) relative to the 
neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on Positive side of Neutral 
01 On positive side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64982 
SPN 2666 Joystick 1 Y-Axis Lever Forward Positive Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is on the positive travel side (forward, right, clockwise, up) relative to the 
neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on Positive side of Neutral 
01 On positive side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64982 
SPN 2667 Joystick 1 Grip X-Axis Lever Right Positive Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick grip position is on the positive travel side (forward, right, clockwise, up) relative to the 
neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on Positive side of Neutral 
01 On positive side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64983 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 316 -
SPN 2668 Joystick 1 Grip Y-Axis Lever Forward Positive Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick grip position is on the positive travel side (forward, right, clockwise, up) relative to the 
neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on Positive side of Neutral 
01 On positive side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64983 
SPN 2669 Joystick 1 Theta-Axis Clockwise Positive Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is on the positive travel side (forward, right, clockwise, up) relative to the 
neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on Positive side of Neutral 
01 On positive side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64983 
SPN 2670 Joystick 1 X-Axis Lever Left Negative Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is on the negative travel side (back, left, counterclockwise, down) relative to the 
neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on negative side of Neutral 
01 On negative side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64982 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 317 -
SPN 2671 Joystick 1 Y-Axis Lever Back Negative Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is on the negative travel side (back, left, counterclockwise, down) relative to the 
neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on negative side of Neutral 
01 On negative side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64982 
SPN 2672 Joystick 1 Grip X-Axis Lever Left Negative Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick grip position is on the negative travel side (back, left, counterclockwise, down) relative 
to the neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on negative side of Neutral 
01 On negative side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64983 
SPN 2673 Joystick 1 Grip Y-Axis Lever Back Negative Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick grip position is on the negative travel side (back, left, counterclockwise, down) relative 
to the neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on negative side of Neutral 
01 On negative side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64983 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 318 -
SPN 2674 Joystick 1 Theta-Axis Counter Clockwise Negative Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is on the negative travel side (back, left, counterclockwise, down) relative to the 
neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on negative side of Neutral 
01 On negative side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64983 
SPN 2675 Joystick 1 X-Axis Neutral Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is in the neutral position for that axis of travel. The neutral position 
measurement must be determined from some mechanism other than the axis position measurement device.
00 Not in Neutral Position 
01 In Neutral Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64982 
SPN 2676 Joystick 1 Y-Axis Neutral Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is in the neutral position for that axis of travel. The neutral position 
measurement must be determined from some mechanism other than the axis position measurement device.
00 Not in Neutral Position 
01 In Neutral Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64982 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 319 -
SPN 2677 Joystick 1 Grip X-Axis Neutral Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick grip position is in the neutral position for that axis of travel. The neutral position 
measurement must be determined from some mechanism other than the axis position measurement device.
00 Not in Neutral Position 
01 In Neutral Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64983 
SPN 2678 Joystick 1 Grip Y-Axis Neutral Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick grip position is in the neutral position for that axis of travel. The neutral position 
measurement must be determined from some mechanism other than the axis position measurement device.
00 Not in Neutral Position 
01 In Neutral Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64983 
SPN 2679 Joystick 1 Theta-Axis Neutral Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is in the neutral position for that axis of travel. The neutral position 
measurement must be determined from some mechanism other than the axis position measurement device.
00 Not in Neutral Position 
01 In Neutral Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64983 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 320 -
SPN 2680 Joystick 1 X-Axis Detent Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is in the detent position for that axis of travel. 
00 Not in the Detent Position 
01 In the Detent Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64982 
SPN 2681 Joystick 1 Y-Axis Detent Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is in the detent position for that axis of travel. 
00 Not in the Detent Position 
01 In the Detent Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64982 
SPN 2682 Joystick 1 Grip X-Axis Detent Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick grip position is in the detent position for that axis of travel. 
00 Not in the Detent Position 
01 In the Detent Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64983 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 321 -
SPN 2683 Joystick 1 Grip Y-Axis Detent Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick grip position is in the detent position for that axis of travel. 
00 Not in the Detent Position 
01 In the Detent Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64983 
SPN 2684 Joystick 1 Theta-Axis Detent Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is in the detent position for that axis of travel. 
00 Not in the Detent Position 
01 In the Detent Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64983 
SPN 2685 Joystick 1 Button 1 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64982 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 322 -
SPN 2686 Joystick 1 Button 2 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64982 
SPN 2687 Joystick 1 Button 3 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64982 
SPN 2688 Joystick 1 Button 4 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64982 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 323 -
SPN 2689 Joystick 1 Button 5 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64982 
SPN 2690 Joystick 1 Button 6 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64982 
SPN 2691 Joystick 1 Button 7 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64982 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 324 -
SPN 2692 Joystick 1 Button 8 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64982 
SPN 2693 Joystick 1 Button 9 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64982 
SPN 2694 Joystick 1 Button 10 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64982 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 325 -
SPN 2695 Joystick 1 Button 11 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64982 
SPN 2696 Joystick 1 Button 12 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64982 
SPN 2697 Joystick 2 X-Axis Position 
The position of the joystick in the relative motion of travel from the neutral position. Position value of 0 is Neutral and 
position value 1000 (100%) is the end of linear zone. Value of 1022 indicates an error has occurred. 
Data Length: 10 bits 
Resolution: 0.1 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 102 % Operational Range: 0.0 to 100.0% 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64984 
SPN 2698 Joystick 2 Y-Axis Position 
The position of the joystick in the relative motion of travel from the neutral position. Position value of 0 is Neutral and 
position value 1000 (100%) is the end of linear zone. Value of 1022 indicates an error has occurred. 
Data Length: 10 bits 
Resolution: 0.1 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 102 % Operational Range: 0.0 to 100.0% 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64984 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 326 -
SPN 2699 Joystick 2 Grip X-Axis Position 
The position of the joystick grip in the relative motion of travel from the neutral position. Position value of 0 is Neutral and
position value 1000 (100%) is the end of linear zone. Value of 1022 indicates an error has occurred. 
Data Length: 10 bits 
Resolution: 0.1 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 102 % Operational Range: 0.0 to 100.0% 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64985 
SPN 2700 Joystick 2 Grip Y-Axis Position 
The position of the joystick grip in the relative motion of travel from the neutral position. Position value of 0 is Neutral and
position value 1000 (100%) is the end of linear zone. Value of 1022 indicates an error has occurred. 
Data Length: 10 bits 
Resolution: 0.1 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 102 % Operational Range: 0.0 to 100.0% 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64985 
SPN 2701 Joystick 2 Theta-Axis Position 
The position of the joystick in the relative motion of travel from the neutral position. Position value of 0 is Neutral and 
position value 1000 (100%) is the end of linear zone. Value of 1022 indicates an error has occurred. 
Data Length: 10 bits 
Resolution: 0.1 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 102 % Operational Range: 0.0 to 100.0% 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64985 
SPN 2702 Joystick 2 X-Axis Lever Right Positive Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is on the positive travel side (forward, right, clockwise, up) relative to the 
neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on Positive side of Neutral 
01 On positive side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64984 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 327 -
SPN 2703 Joystick 2 Y-Axis Lever Forward Positive Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is on the positive travel side (forward, right, clockwise, up) relative to the 
neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on Positive side of Neutral 
01 On positive side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64984 
SPN 2704 Joystick 2 Grip X-Axis Lever Right Positive Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick grip position is on the positive travel side (forward, right, clockwise, up) relative to the 
neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on Positive side of Neutral 
01 On positive side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64985 
SPN 2705 Joystick 2 Grip Y-Axis Lever Forward Positive Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick grip position is on the positive travel side (forward, right, clockwise, up) relative to the 
neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on Positive side of Neutral 
01 On positive side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64985 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 328 -
SPN 2706 Joystick 2 Theta-Axis Clockwise Positive Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is on the positive travel side (forward, right, clockwise, up) relative to the 
neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on Positive side of Neutral 
01 On positive side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64985 
SPN 2707 Joystick 2 X-Axis Lever Left Negative Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is on the negative travel side (back, left, counterclockwise, down) relative to the 
neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on negative side of Neutral 
01 On negative side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64984 
SPN 2708 Joystick 2 Y-Axis Lever Back Negative Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is on the negative travel side (back, left, counterclockwise, down) relative to the 
neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on negative side of Neutral 
01 On negative side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64984 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 329 -
SPN 2709 Joystick 2 Grip X-Axis Lever Left Negative Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick grip position is on the negative travel side (back, left, counterclockwise, down) relative 
to the neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on negative side of Neutral 
01 On negative side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64985 
SPN 2710 Joystick 2 Grip Y-Axis Lever Back Negative Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick grip position is on the negative travel side (back, left, counterclockwise, down) relative 
to the neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on negative side of Neutral 
01 On negative side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64985 
SPN 2711 Joystick 2 Theta-Axis Counter Clockwise Negative Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is on the negative travel side (back, left, counterclockwise, down) relative to the 
neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on negative side of Neutral 
01 On negative side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64985 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 330 -
SPN 2712 Joystick 2 X-Axis Neutral Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is in the neutral position for that axis of travel. The neutral position 
measurement must be determined from some mechanism other than the axis position measurement device.
00 Not in Neutral Position 
01 In Neutral Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64984 
SPN 2713 Joystick 2 Y-Axis Neutral Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is in the neutral position for that axis of travel. The neutral position 
measurement must be determined from some mechanism other than the axis position measurement device.
00 Not in Neutral Position 
01 In Neutral Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64984 
SPN 2714 Joystick 2 Grip X-Axis Neutral Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick grip position is in the neutral position for that axis of travel. The neutral position 
measurement must be determined from some mechanism other than the axis position measurement device. 
00 Not on negative side of Neutral 
01 On negative side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64985 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 331 -
SPN 2715 Joystick 2 Grip Y-Axis Neutral Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick grip position is in the neutral position for that axis of travel. The neutral position 
measurement must be determined from some mechanism other than the axis position measurement device.
00 Not in Neutral Position 
01 In Neutral Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64985 
SPN 2716 Joystick 2 Theta-Axis Neutral Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is in the neutral position for that axis of travel. The neutral position 
measurement must be determined from some mechanism other than the axis position measurement device.
00 Not in Neutral Position 
01 In Neutral Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64985 
SPN 2717 Joystick 2 X-Axis Detent Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is in the detent position for that axis of travel. 
00 Not in the Detent Position 
01 In the Detent Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64984 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 332 -
SPN 2718 Joystick 2 Y-Axis Detent Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is in the detent position for that axis of travel. 
00 Not in the Detent Position 
01 In the Detent Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64984 
SPN 2719 Joystick 2 Grip X-Axis Detent Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick grip position is in the detent position for that axis of travel. 
00 Not in the Detent Position 
01 In the Detent Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64985 
SPN 2720 Joystick 2 Grip Y-Axis Detent Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick grip position is in the detent position for that axis of travel. 
00 Not in the Detent Position 
01 In the Detent Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64985 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 333 -
SPN 2721 Joystick 2 Theta-Axis Detent Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is in the detent position for that axis of travel. 
00 Not in the Detent Position 
01 In the Detent Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64985 
SPN 2722 Joystick 2 Button 1 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64984 
SPN 2723 Joystick 2 Button 2 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64984 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 334 -
SPN 2724 Joystick 2 Button 3 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64984 
SPN 2725 Joystick 2 Button 4 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64984 
SPN 2726 Joystick 2 Button 5 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64984 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 335 -
SPN 2727 Joystick 2 Button 6 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64984 
SPN 2728 Joystick 2 Button 7 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64984 
SPN 2729 Joystick 2 Button 8 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64984 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 336 -
SPN 2730 Joystick 2 Button 9 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64984 
SPN 2731 Joystick 2 Button 10 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64984 
SPN 2732 Joystick 2 Button 11 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64984 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 337 -
SPN 2733 Joystick 2 Button 12 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64984 
SPN 2734 Joystick 3 X-Axis Position 
The position of the joystick in the relative motion of travel from the neutral position. Position value of 0 is Neutral and 
position value 1000 (100%) is the end of linear zone. Value of 1022 indicates an error has occurred. 
Data Length: 10 bits 
Resolution: 0.1 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 102 % Operational Range: 0.0 to 100.0% 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64986 
SPN 2735 Joystick 3 Y-Axis Position 
The position of the joystick in the relative motion of travel from the neutral position. Position value of 0 is Neutral and 
position value 1000 (100%) is the end of linear zone. Value of 1022 indicates an error has occurred. 
Data Length: 10 bits 
Resolution: 0.1 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 102 % Operational Range: 0.0 to 100.0% 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64986 
SPN 2736 Joystick 3 Grip X-Axis Position 
The position of the joystick grip in the relative motion of travel from the neutral position. Position value of 0 is Neutral and
position value 1000 (100%) is the end of linear zone. Value of 1022 indicates an error has occurred. 
Data Length: 10 bits 
Resolution: 0.1 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 102 % Operational Range: 0.0 to 100.0% 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64987 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 338 -
SPN 2737 Joystick 3 Grip Y-Axis Position 
The position of the joystick grip in the relative motion of travel from the neutral position. Position value of 0 is Neutral and
position value 1000 (100%) is the end of linear zone. Value of 1022 indicates an error has occurred. 
Data Length: 10 bits 
Resolution: 0.1 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 102 % Operational Range: 0.0 to 100.0% 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64987 
SPN 2738 Joystick 3 Theta-Axis Position 
The position of the joystick in the relative motion of travel from the neutral position. Position value of 0 is Neutral and 
position value 1000 (100%) is the end of linear zone. Value of 1022 indicates an error has occurred. 
Data Length: 10 bits 
Resolution: 0.1 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 102 % Operational Range: 0.0 to 100.0% 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64987 
SPN 2739 Joystick 3 X-Axis Lever Right Positive Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is on the positive travel side (forward, right, clockwise, up) relative to the 
neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on Positive side of Neutral 
01 On positive side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64986 
SPN 2740 Joystick 3 Y-Axis Lever Forward Positive Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is on the positive travel side (forward, right, clockwise, up) relative to the 
neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on Positive side of Neutral 
01 On positive side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64986 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 339 -
SPN 2741 Joystick 3 Grip X-Axis Lever Right Positive Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick grip position is on the positive travel side (forward, right, clockwise, up) relative to the 
neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on Positive side of Neutral 
01 On positive side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64987 
SPN 2742 Joystick 3 Grip Y-Axis Lever Forward Positive Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick grip position is on the positive travel side (forward, right, clockwise, up) relative to the 
neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on Positive side of Neutral 
01 On positive side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64987 
SPN 2743 Joystick 3 Theta-Axis Clockwise Positive Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is on the positive travel side (forward, right, clockwise, up) relative to the 
neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on Positive side of Neutral 
01 On positive side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64987 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 340 -
SPN 2744 Joystick 3 X-Axis Lever Left Negative Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is on the negative travel side (back, left, counterclockwise, down) relative to the 
neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on negative side of Neutral 
01 On negative side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64986 
SPN 2745 Joystick 3 Y-Axis Lever Back Negative Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is on the negative travel side (back, left, counterclockwise, down) relative to the 
neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on negative side of Neutral 
01 On negative side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64986 
SPN 2746 Joystick 3 Grip X-Axis Lever Left Negative Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick grip position is on the negative travel side (back, left, counterclockwise, down) relative 
to the neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on negative side of Neutral 
01 On negative side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64987 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 341 -
SPN 2747 Joystick 3 Grip Y-Axis Lever Back Negative Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick grip position is on the negative travel side (back, left, counterclockwise, down) relative 
to the neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on negative side of Neutral 
01 On negative side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64987 
SPN 2748 Joystick 3 Theta-Axis Counter Clockwise Negative Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is on the negative travel side (back, left, counterclockwise, down) relative to the 
neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on negative side of Neutral 
01 On negative side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64987 
SPN 2749 Joystick 3 X-Axis Neutral Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is in the neutral position for that axis of travel. The neutral position 
measurement must be determined from some mechanism other than the axis position measurement device.
00 Not in Neutral Position 
01 In Neutral Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64986 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 342 -
SPN 2750 Joystick 3 Y-Axis Neutral Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is in the neutral position for that axis of travel. The neutral position 
measurement must be determined from some mechanism other than the axis position measurement device.
00 Not in Neutral Position 
01 In Neutral Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64986 
SPN 2751 Joystick 3 Grip X-Axis Neutral Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick grip position is in the neutral position for that axis of travel. The neutral position 
measurement must be determined from some mechanism other than the axis position measurement device.
00 Not on negative side of Neutral 
01 On negative side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64987 
SPN 2752 Joystick 3 Grip Y-Axis Neutral Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick grip position is in the neutral position for that axis of travel. The neutral position 
measurement must be determined from some mechanism other than the axis position measurement device.
00 Not in Neutral Position 
01 In Neutral Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64987 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 343 -
SPN 2753 Joystick 3 Theta-Axis Neutral Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is in the neutral position for that axis of travel. The neutral position 
measurement must be determined from some mechanism other than the axis position measurement device.
00 Not in Neutral Position 
01 In Neutral Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64987 
SPN 2754 Joystick 3 X-Axis Detent Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is in the detent position for that axis of travel. 
00 Not in the Detent Position 
01 In the Detent Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64986 
SPN 2755 Joystick 3 Y-Axis Detent Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is in the detent position for that axis of travel. 
00 Not in the Detent Position 
01 In the Detent Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64986 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 344 -
SPN 2756 Joystick 3 Grip X-Axis Detent Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick grip position is in the detent position for that axis of travel. 
00 Not in the Detent Position 
01 In the Detent Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64987 
SPN 2757 Joystick 3 Grip Y-Axis Detent Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick grip position is in the detent position for that axis of travel. 
00 Not in the Detent Position 
01 In the Detent Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64987 
SPN 2758 Joystick 3 Theta-Axis Detent Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is in the detent position for that axis of travel. 
00 Not in the Detent Position 
01 In the Detent Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64987 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 345 -
SPN 2759 Joystick 3 Button 1 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64986 
SPN 2760 Joystick 3 Button 2 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64986 
SPN 2761 Joystick 3 Button 3 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64986 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 346 -
SPN 2762 Joystick 3 Button 4 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64986 
SPN 2763 Joystick 3 Button 5 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64986 
SPN 2764 Joystick 3 Button 6 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64986 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 347 -
SPN 2765 Joystick 3 Button 7 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64986 
SPN 2766 Joystick 3 Button 8 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64986 
SPN 2767 Joystick 3 Button 9 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64986 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 348 -
SPN 2768 Joystick 3 Button 10 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64986 
SPN 2769 Joystick 3 Button 11 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64986 
SPN 2770 Joystick 3 Button 12 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64986 
SPN 2789 Engine Turbocharger 1 Calculated Turbine Intake Temperature 
Calculated value of turbine intake temperature based on engine operating conditions, such as intake manifold 
temperature, charge fuel ratio, injection timing, and engine speed. Use SPN 1180 for actual measured intake 
temperature.
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64981 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 349 -
SPN 2790 Engine Turbocharger 1 Calculated Turbine Outlet Temperature 
Calculated value of turbocharger compressor outlet air temperature. Temperature of air exiting the turbocharger 
compressor and before entering charge air cooler. The estimate is based on turbo speed and measured turbocharger 
compressor intake temperature. Use SPN 1184 for actual measured outlet temperature. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64981 
SPN 2791 Engine Exhaust Gas Recirculation 1 (EGR1) Valve Control 
Desired percentage of maximum Exhaust Gas Recirculation (EGR) valve opening. 0% means valve is closed. 100% 
means maximum valve opening (full gas flow). 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.0025 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 160.6375 % Operational Range: 0 to 100% 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 27 
PGN reference: 64981 
SPN 2792 Engine Variable Geometry Turbocharger (VGT) Air Control Shutoff Valve 
Isolates vehicle brake air from the Variable Geometry Turbocharger (VGT) system when engine is not running. This valve 
prevents vehicle air from bleeding off through the VGT Control Valve when engine is not in use. Primary vehicle air 
system from air tanks feed the VGT Air Control Shutoff Valve, which in turn provides air to the VGT Control Valve when 
the key switch is 'ON'. The VGT Control Valve delivers air to the VGT actuator to adjust turbocharger geometry. 
00 VGT Air Control Shutoff Valve is Off 
01 VGT Air Control Shutoff Valve is On 
10 Reserved 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64981 
SPN 2793 Laser Strike Data Latency 
Time from laser strike to CAN message transmission. This parameter will be reported by survey receiver type devices 
only. Byte 3 (SPN 2576) of PGN 65141 identifies the type of Laser Receiver. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 51.2 us/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3.289856 s Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65141 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 350 -
SPN 2794 Absolute Laser Strike Position 
Laser Strike location on the survey type laser receiver. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 mm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6,425.5 mm (0 to 6.4255 m) Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65141 
SPN 2795 Engine Variable Geometry Turbocharger (VGT) 1 Actuator Position 
Sensor that measures the position of the variable geometry turbocharger actuator. A position of 0% indicates the 
actuator is in the position creating the smallest geometry turbocharger. A position of 100% represents the largest 
geometry turbocharger. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64981 
SPN 2796 Transfer Case Selector Switch 
Operator switch to select the condition of the transfer case. States 000 and 001 should be used if the transfer case only 
functions to switch between 2-wheel and 4-wheel drive. If the transfer case includes a High / Low Range function, states 
011 and 100 should be supported as well. For reporting the status of the transfer case, see SPN 3645. 
000: 2 wheel high (Normal or ‘On Highway’ Range) 
001: 4 wheel high (Normal or ‘On Highway’ Range) 
010: Neutral 
011: 2 wheel low (or ‘Off Highway’ Range) 
100: 4 wheel low (or ‘Off Highway’ Range) 
101: Reserved for SAE assignment 
110: Error indicator 
111: Not available 
Data Length: 3 bits 
Resolution: 8 states/3 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 7 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64980 
SPN 2799 Engine Turbocharger 2 Compressor Outlet Temperature 
Temperature of the air exiting the turbocharger 2 compressor outlet 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64979 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 351 -
SPN 2800 Engine Turbocharger 3 Compressor Outlet Temperature 
Temperature of the air exiting the turbocharger 3 compressor outlet 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64979 
SPN 2801 Engine Turbocharger 4 Compressor Outlet Temperature 
Temperature of the air exiting the turbocharger 4 compressor outlet 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64979 
SPN 2802 Data Memory Usage 
The used storage capacity of the data buffer memory internal to an ECU, such as a data logger. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64978 
SPN 2803 Keep-Alive Battery Consumption 
The capacity consumed from the direct battery connection since the key was last turned off. This value is maintained and 
does not accumulate while the key switch is on. The value is reset to 0 when the key switch is turned to the off position. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1 mAhr/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 64255mAhr (64.255Ahr) Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64978 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 352 -
SPN 2804 FMS-standard Diagnostics Supported 
Status signal which indicates if the FMS Vehicle Interface (FMS Gateway) supports the handling of diagnostic messages 
from the vehicle network onto the FMS network. 
The FMS gateway does NOT support the re-broadcast of diagnostics messages present on the vehicle network. 
If this 'FMS-standard Diagnostics Supported' feature is supported by the FMS Gateway, the FMS Gateway will support 
the requests for diagnostics information (from the FMS device) onto the vehicle network and pass the responses onto the 
FMS network. 
Note: This feature of the FMS Gateway is independent of the 'FMS-standard Requests Supported'. The FMS Gateway 
may support diagnostics without supporting the 'FMS-standard Requests Supported' function, or visa-versa. 
00 Diagnostics Is Not Supported 
01 Diagnostics Is Supported 
10 Reserved 
11 Don't care 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64977 
SPN 2805 FMS-standard Requests Supported 
Status signal which indicates if the FMS Vehicle Interface (FMS Gateway) will respond to requests from the FMS device 
for the PGNs listed in the FMS Interface Specification. 
This mode is to support FMS gateway devices that only operate in a 'Request' mode. 
The FMS PGNs may also be broadcast periodically in this mode. 
The FMS Gateway will NOT support the requests for information not included in the FMS Interface Specification onto the 
vehicle network." 
00 On request mode is not supported 
01 On request mode is supported 
10 Reserved 
11 Don't care 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64977 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 353 -
SPN 2806 FMS-standard SW-version supported. 
Information that identifies which issue level of the FMS-standard document the software included in the FMS gateway 
supports. Four bytes, representing xx.yy type revision level identification. 
Information to be ASCII equivalent of the numeric revision level of the FMS document, 00.01 to 99.99. The first released 
version will be 01.00. 
Note:
Byte 2 and byte 3 represents the SW version supported for trucks. Version number in the format ab.cd where Byte 2 
represents "a" ASCII and Byte 3 represents "b" ASCII. 
Byte 4 and byte 5 represents the SW version supported for bus and coaches; version number in the format ab.cd where 
Byte 4 represents "c" ASCII and Byte 5 represents "d" ASCII. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: ASCII, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 255 per byte Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64977 
SPN 2807 Engine Fuel Shutoff 2 Control 
Control setting for fuel shutoff 2. First instance is SPN 632. For a dual fuel shutoff system, this SPN is representative of 
the downstream fuel shutoff commanded position. When fuel (gas) is desired at the engine, the fuel shutoff is opened.
Otherwise, it is closed. 
00 = Open (fuel supplied to engine) 
01 = Closed (no fuel supplied to engine) 
10 = Reserved 
11 = Don't care / take no action 
In addition to communicating desired action of fuel shutoff 2 and its driver status, this new SPN can be used to 
communicate whether fuel shutoff 2 feedback position (if available) matches the commanded position, through the use of 
FMIs. 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64914 
SPN 2809 Engine Air Filter 2 Differential Pressure 
Change in engine air system pressure, measured across the second air filter, due to the filter and any accumulation of 
solid foreign matter on or in the filter. 
This is for monitoring the air filter on the intake to the second turbocharger. Filter numbering follows the guidelines noted 
in section Naming Convention For Engine Parameters. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.05 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 12.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64976 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 354 -
SPN 2810 Engine Air Filter 3 Differential Pressure 
Change in engine air system pressure, measured across the third air filter, due to the filter and any accumulation of solid 
foreign matter on or in the filter. 
This is for monitoring the air filter on the intake to the third turbocharger. Filter numbering follows the guidelines noted in
section Naming Convention For Engine Parameters. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.05 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 12.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64976 
SPN 2811 Engine Air Filter 4 Differential Pressure 
Change in engine air system pressure, measured across the fourth air filter, due to the filter and any accumulation of solid 
foreign matter on or in the filter. 
This is for monitoring the air filter on the intake to the fourth turbocharger. Filter numbering follows the guidelines noted in
section Naming Convention For Engine Parameters. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.05 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 12.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64976 
SPN 2812 Engine Overspeed Test 
The engine overspeed test signal as measured by the reporting ECM. Engine Overspeed Test is a mechanism to 
simulate engine overspeed situations, while operating the engine within the engine's safe operating range. 
State signal which indicates when the overspeed test input to the ECM is being driven. 
00 Engine Overspeed Test Not Active 
01 Engine Overspeed Test Active 
10 Reserved 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65252 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 355 -
SPN 2813 Engine Air Shutoff Command Status 
State signal which indicates when the Air Shutoff driver output is being driven. Disabled means controller wants air 
flowing to the engine. Status of the airflow shutoff as being commanded by the ECU. 
00 Air Shutoff Disabled, not attempting to shutoff engine air supply 
01 Air Shutoff Enabled, attempting to shutoff engine air supply 
10 Reserved 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65252 
SPN 2814 Engine Alarm Output Command Status 
State signal which indicates when the Alarm driver output is being driven. Not active means the Controller has no alarm 
level conditions. 
00 Engine Alarm Output Command Not Active 
01 Engine Alarm Output Command Active 
10 Reserved 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65252 
SPN 2815 Engine Alarm Acknowledge 
The Engine Alarm Acknowledge Input signal as measured by the reporting ECM. The Engine Alarm Acknowledge is a 
mechanism for external acknowledgement of the SPN 2814, Engine Alarm Output Command.
00 Engine Alarm Acknowledge Not Active
01 Engine Alarm Acknowledge Active 
10 Error 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65252 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 356 -
SPN 2863 Front Operator Wiper Switch 
State of operation selected by operator switch for the Wiper in front of the operator position. This parameter, 'Front 
Operator Wiper Switch' should be used for the control information if either of the other wiper switch parameters is 'Not 
Available' and the associated wiper still needs to be controlled. 
0000 Off 
0001 Low 
0010 Medium 
0011 High 
0100 Delayed 1 (used for the first delay choice when the wiper switch position controls the delay) 
0101 Delayed 2 (used for the second delay choice when the wiper switch position controls the delay) 
0110 Mist (position where external sensor controls wiper rate) 
0111 - 1110 Reserved
1111 Not available (do not change) 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64973 
SPN 2864 Front Non-operator Wiper Switch 
State of operation selected by operator switch for the front wiper not in front of the operator position. The parameter, 
'Front Operator Washer Switch' should be used for the control information if this parameter is 'Not Available' and the 
associated washer still needs to be controlled. 
0000 Off 
0001 Low 
0010 Medium 
0011 High 
0100 Delayed 1 (used for the first delay choice when the wiper switch position controls the delay) 
0101 Delayed 2 (used for the second delay choice when the wiper switch position controls the delay) 
0110 Mist (position where external sensor controls wiper rate) 
0111 - 1110 Reserved
1111 Not available (do not change) 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64973 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 357 -
SPN 2865 Rear Wiper Switch 
State of operation selected by operator switch for the rear wiper. The parameter, 'Front Operator Washer Switch' should 
be used for the control information if this parameter is 'Not Available' and the associated washer still needs to be 
controlled.
0000 Off 
0001 Low 
0010 Medium 
0011 High 
0100 Delayed 1 (used for the first delay choice when the wiper switch position controls the delay) 
0101 Delayed 2 (used for the second delay choice when the wiper switch position controls the delay) 
0110 Mist (position where external sensor controls wiper rate) 
0111 - 1110 Reserved
1111 Not available (do not change) 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64973 
SPN 2866 Front Operator Washer Switch 
State of operation selected by operator switch for the washer in front of the operator position. This parameter, 'Front 
Operator Washer Switch’ should be used for the control information if either of the other washer switch parameters is 'Not 
Available' and the associated washer still needs to be controlled. 
000 Off 
001 Low 
010 Medium 
011 High 
100 - 110 Reserved
111 Not available (do not change) 
Data Length: 3 bits 
Resolution: 8 states/3 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 7 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64973 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 358 -
SPN 2867 Front Non-operator Washer Switch 
State of operation selected by operator switch for the front washer not in front of the operator position. The parameter, 
'Front Operator Washer Switch’ should be used for the control information if this parameter is 'Not Available' and the 
associated washer still needs to be controlled. 
000 Off 
001 Low 
010 Medium 
011 High 
100 - 110 Reserved
111 Not available (do not change) 
Data Length: 3 bits 
Resolution: 8 states/3 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 7 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64973 
SPN 2868 Rear Washer Function 
State of operation selected by operator switch for the rear washer. The parameter, 'Front Operator Washer Switch’ 
should be used for the control information if this parameter is 'Not Available' and the associated washer still needs to be 
controlled.
000 Off 
001 Low 
010 Medium 
011 High 
100 - 110 Reserved
111 Not available (do not change) 
Data Length: 3 bits 
Resolution: 8 states/3 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 7 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64973 
SPN 2869 Front Operator Wiper Delay Control 
Time between cycles of the front operator side wiper (i.e. from end of cycle 'n' to start of cycle 'n+1') as selected by the 
operator control (switch, etc.) in percentage of position with maximum position corresponding to maximum delay 
selectable. This parameter, 'Front Operator Wiper Delay Control' should be used for the delay information if either of the 
other delay parameters is 'Not Available' and the function needs to be provided. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64973 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 359 -
SPN 2870 Front Non-operator Wiper Delay Control 
Time between cycles of the front non-operator side wiper (i.e. from end of cycle 'n' to start of cycle 'n+1') as selected by 
the operator control (switch, etc.) in percentage of position with maximum position corresponding to maximum delay 
selectable. The parameter, 'Front Operator Wiper Delay Control' should be used for the delay information if this 
parameter is 'Not Available' and the function needs to be provided. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64973 
SPN 2871 Rear Wiper Delay Control 
Time between cycles of the rear wiper (i.e. from end of cycle 'n' to start of cycle 'n+1') as selected by the operator control 
(switch, etc.) in percentage of position with maximum position corresponding to maximum delay selectable. The 
parameter, 'Front Operator Wiper Delay Control' should be used for the delay information if this parameter is 'Not 
Available' and the function needs to be provided. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64973 
SPN 2872 Main Light Switch 
A 4 bit parameter to indicate the selected position of the operator's main light switch. 
0000 Off - The position by which the operator selects that none of the lamps are to be on. 
0001 Park On - The position by which the operator selects that the park lamps are to be on.
0010 Headlight On - The position by which the operator selects that the headlamps are to be on. 
0011 Headlight and Park On - The position by which the operator selects that Both the Headlamps and the Park lamps 
are to be on.
0100 - 0111 Reserved
1000 Delayed Off - The position by which the operator selects that a certain set of lamps are to come On and then are to 
be turned Off following a delay time (Operators Desired - Delayed Lamp Off Time). 
1001 - 1101 Reserved
1110 Error 
1111 Not available (do not change) 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64972 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 360 -
SPN 2873 Work Light Switch 
A 4 bit parameter to indicate the selected position of the operator's work light switch. In Ag applications the work lights are
often refereed to as field lights. In on-highway applications the work lights are often referred to as clearance lights and 
may or may not be operated by a switch separate from the main light switch. 
0000 Off - The position by which the operator selects that none of the work lamps are to be on. 
0001 Work Light Combination #1 On - The position by which the operator selects that the lamps in the combination 
defined as Work Light Combination #1 are to be on. 
0010 Work Light Combination #2 On - The position by which the operator selects that the lamps in the combination 
defined as Work Light Combination #2 are to be on. 
0011 Work Light Combination #3 On - The position by which the operator selects that the lamps in the combination 
defined as Work Light Combination #3 are to be on. 
0100 Work Light Combination #4 On - The position by which the operator selects that the lamps in the combination 
defined as Work Light Combination #4 are to be on. 
0101-1101 Reserved
1110 Error 
1111 Not available (do not change) 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64972 
SPN 2874 High-Low Beam Switch 
A 2 bit parameter to indicate the selected position of the operator's high/low beam select switch. 
00 Low Beam Selected 
01 High Beam Selected 
10 Error 
11 Not available (do not change) 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64972 
SPN 2875 Hazard Light Switch 
A 2 bit parameter to indicate the selected position of the operator's hazard light switch. 
00 Hazard Lamps to be Off 
01 Hazard Lamps to be Flashing 
10 Error 
11 Not available (do not change) 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64972 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 361 -
SPN 2876 Turn Signal Switch 
A 4 bit parameter to indicate the selected position of the operator's turn signal switch. 
0000 No Turn being signaled 
0001 Left Turn to be Flashing 
0010 Right turn to be Flashing 
0011 - 1101 Reserved
1110 Error (to include both left and right selected simultaneously) 
1111 Not available (do not change) 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64972 
SPN 2877 Operators Desired - Delayed Lamp Off Time 
A 16 bit parameter to be associated with Delayed Off position (1000 binary) of the Main Light Switch. This parameter 
indicates the time the operator wishes to have elapse following the Main Light switch being placed in Delayed Off position 
before the defined lights turn back off. The Operator's definition as to which lamps are to turn On (and then Off of course) 
when the Main Light Switch is in the Delayed Off position. The specific lamps are not identified within this message, but 
are to be stored by whatever device (ecu) is planning to send the lamp command message for said lamps. Said device 
must also provide the means for the operator to enter and/or adjust said definition. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1 s/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 64,255 s Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64972 
SPN 2878 Operators Desired Back-light 
A 8 bit parameter to indicate the level of back lighting the operator has selected for displays. This is to be differentiated 
from the Illumination Brightness Percent (SPN:1487 PGN:53248 Cab Illumination Message) which is sent to the displays 
to tell them what level to be at. This is the operator desired level (as sensed by operator controls) for those system where 
the operator controls are monitored by an ecu separate from the ecu sending the command to the displays. Note each 
display (if appropriate) will need to have its own balance function to compensate its nominal brightness to the same level 
of that of all other displays. This is especially important for systems with back-lights which may change noticeable with 
aging. In other words it will be necessary within a vehicle to scale all of the displays down to the same level as the 
dimmest display (since, obviously you can not make the dimmest brighter). 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64972 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 362 -
SPN 2879 Engine Alternate Droop Accelerator 2 Select 
Same description as Engine Alternate Droop Accelerator 1 Select (SPN 2881) except that the selections may apply to 
Accelerator 2. 
0000 – Normal Droop Setting is selected 
0001 thru 1101 – One of Alternate Droop Setting 1 through 13 (in sequential order) is selected 
1110 – Error condition 
1111 – Not available 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64971 
SPN 2880 Engine Operator Primary Intermediate Speed Select 
Allows the operator to select one of 13 preprogrammed Intermediate Speed Control settings. If no speed setting is 
requested, the engine operates normally. The Intermediate Speed Control is widely used in the Industrial application to 
control the engine to an intermediate speed setting which can either replace the accelerator position control altogether, or 
limit the accelerator position control to a selectable speed point minimum or maximum. 
0000 – indicates that the ISC functionality is not requested, engine operates normally 
0001 thru 1101 – indicates that the ISC Setting 1 thru 13 (in sequential order) is selected 
1110 – error condition 
1111 – not available 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64970 
SPN 2881 Engine Alternate Droop Accelerator 1 Select 
In some off-highway applications it may be desirable to have multiple droop settings available across the range of engine 
operation. For example, in an agricultural tractor application, this functionality allows a higher engine speed during low 
load so as to maximize vehicle speed driven between fields on the road. Another use of the alternate droop settings 
would be to provide functionality for maintaining an engine speed independent of the applied load on demand. There is a 
normal droop setting, and up to 13 additional preprogrammed droop settings which are user selectable by switching. The 
selections apply to Accelerator 1. 
0000 – Normal Droop Setting is selected 
0001 thru 1101 – One of Alternate Droop Setting 1 through 13 (in sequential order) is selected 
1110 – Error condition 
1111 – Not available 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64971 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 363 -
SPN 2882 Engine Alternate Rating Select 
In some off-highway applications it may be desirable to have multiple engine ratings available for selection by the 
operator. There is the default engine rating, which provides the maximum available power across the range of operation. 
There are additional engine ratings which the user can select that allow for alternate fueling across the operational range. 
 Engine rating selection number 1 is the maximum rating. Selection number 2 is the next highest, selection 3 next highest, 
etc. The selection impacts the operating points in the Engine Configuration. 
0 – indicates that Maximum Power Fueling is selected 
1 – indicates that the Alternate Power Fueling 1 is selected 
2 – indicates that the Alternate Power Fueling 2 is selected 
3 – indicates that the Alternate Power Fueling 3 is selected 
4 thru 253 - indicates that the Alternate Power Fueling 4 thru 253 (in sequential order) is selected. 
254 – Error condition. 
255 – Not available 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 selection/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 255 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64971 
SPN 2883 Engine Alternate Low Idle Switch 
Operator switch which selects between two low idle speeds, default and alternate. 
The normal programmed low idle is the default low idle, and when the Alternate Low Idle switch is activated, a alternate 
preprogrammed low idle speed is selected. The accelerator position control operates as normal but is now bounded to a 
different low idle speed. This selection impacts Point 1 on the Engine Configuration. 
00 Default low idle point is selected 
01 Alternate low idle point is selected 
10 Error 
11 Not available or Unused 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64971 
SPN 2884 Engine Auxiliary Governor Switch 
This is the On/Off operation of the Auxiliary Governor feature switch. This feature is used to allow engine speed to be 
controlled by an auxiliary input such as pressure or tailshaft speed. This switch position indicates whether this feature is 
requested or not.
00 – Auxiliary Governor is disabled 
01 – Auxiliary Governor is enabled 
10 – Error condition 
11 – Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64971 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 364 -
SPN 2885 Engine Alternate Droop Auxiliary Input Select 
In some off-highway applications it may be desirable to have multiple droop settings available across the range of engine 
operation. For example, in an agricultural tractor application, this functionality allows a higher engine speed during low 
load so as to maximize vehicle speed driven between fields on the road. Another use of the alternate droop settings 
would be to provide functionality for maintaining an engine speed independent of the applied load on demand. There is a 
normal droop setting, and up to 13 additional preprogrammed droop settings which are user selectable by switching. The 
selections apply to the Alternate Droop Auxiliary Input. 
0000 – Normal Droop Setting is selected 
0001 thru 1101 – One of Alternate Droop Setting 1 through 13 (in sequential order) is selected 
1110 – Error condition 
1111 – Not available 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64971 
SPN 2886 Engine Alternate Droop Remote Accelerator Select 
In some off-highway applications it may be desirable to have multiple droop settings available across the range of engine 
operation. For example, in an agricultural tractor application, this functionality allows a higher engine speed during low 
load so as to maximize vehicle speed driven between fields on the road. Another use of the alternate droop settings 
would be to provide functionality for maintaining an engine speed independent of the applied load on demand. There is a 
normal droop setting, and up to 13 additional preprogrammed droop settings which are user selectable by switching. The 
selections apply to the Remote Accelerator. 
0000 – Normal Droop Setting is selected 
0001 thru 1101 – One of Alternate Droop Setting 1 through 13 (in sequential order) is selected 
1110 – Error condition 
1111 – Not available 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64971 
SPN 2887 Total Count of Configuration Changes Made 
Total number of times changes have been made to any of the configurable parameters. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1 count/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 64,255 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64969 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 365 -
SPN 2888 Engine Alternate Rating Select State 
In some off-highway applications it may be desirable to have multiple engine ratings available for selection by the 
operator. There is the default engine rating, which provides the maximum available power across the range of operation. 
There are additional engine ratings which the engine controller may use that allow for alternate fueling across the 
operational range. Engine rating number 1 is the maximum rating. Rating number 2 is the next highest, rating 3 next 
highest, etc. 
00 – Control state is Maximum Power Fueling 
01 – Control state is Alternate Power Fueling 1
02 – Control state is Alternate Power Fueling 2
03 – Control state is Alternate Power Fueling 3 
04 thru 253 - Control state is Alternate Power Fueling 4 thru 253 (in sequential order)
254 – SAE reserved 
255 – Not available 
Data Length: 8 bits 
Resolution: 256 states/8 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 255 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64967 
SPN 2889 Engine Alternate Droop Accelerator 1 Select State 
In some off-highway applications it may be desirable to have multiple droop settings available across the range of engine 
operation. For example, in an agricultural tractor application, this functionality allows a higher engine speed during low 
load so as to maximize vehicle speed driven between fields on the road. Another use of the alternate droop settings 
would be to provide functionality for maintaining an engine speed independent of the applied load on demand. There is a 
normal droop setting, and up to 13 additional preprogrammed droop settings which are user selectable by switching. The 
selections may apply to Accelerator 1. This parameter indicates which state has been selected by the controlling ECM. 
0000 – Control state is Normal Droop Setting 
0001 thru 1101 – Control state is one of Alternate Droop Setting 1 through 13 (in sequential order)
1110 – SAE reserved 
1111 – Not available 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64967 
SPN 2890 Engine Multi-Unit Sync State 
This feature is widely used in Industry to operate multiple engines from a single command source. A master engine will 
“synchronize” one or more slave engines to operate at the same speed. This feature is requested by an operator switch, 
this parameter indictes the state of the feature as determined by the controlling ECM. 
00 Control State is Functionality disabled (off) 
01 Control State is Functionality enabled (on) 
10 SAE reserved 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64967 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 366 -
SPN 2891 Engine Alternate Low Idle Select State 
In many applications, it is desirable that an alternate low idle speed setting be made available via switch input. The normal 
programmed low idle is the default low idle, and when the Alternate Low Idle feature is activated, an alternate 
preprogrammed low idle speed is selected. The accelerator position control operates as normal but is now bounded to a 
different low idle speed. This selection impacts Point 1 on the Engine Configuration. 
00 – Normal idle state 
01 – Alternate idle state 
10 – SAE reserved 
11 – not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64967 
SPN 2892 Engine Operator Primary Intermediate Speed Select State 
13 preprogrammed intermediate speed control settings are available for the controlling ECM to select. If no speed setting 
is requested, the engine operates normally. The Intermediate Speed Control is widely used in the Industrial application to 
control the engine to an intermediate speed setting which can either replace the accelerator position control altogether, or 
limit the accelerator position control to a selectable speed point minimum or maximum. This parameter indicates which 
state has been selected by the controlling ECM. 
0000 – Control state is ISC functionality is not requested, engine operates normally 
0001 thru 1101 – Control state is ISC Setting 1 thru 13 (in sequential order)
1110 – SAE reserved 
1111 – not available 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64968 
SPN 2893 Engine Alternate Droop Accelerator 2 Select State 
In some off-highway applications it may be desirable to have multiple droop settings available across the range of engine 
operation. For example, in an agricultural tractor application, this functionality allows a higher engine speed during low 
load so as to maximize vehicle speed driven between fields on the road. Another use of the alternate droop settings 
would be to provide functionality for maintaining an engine speed independent of the applied load on demand. There is a 
normal droop setting, and up to 13 additional preprogrammed droop settings which are user selectable by switching. The 
selections apply to Accelerator 2. 
0000 – Control's state is Normal Droop Setting 
0001 thru 1101 – Control's state is One of Alternate Droop Setting 1 through 13 (in sequential order) 
1110 – SAE reserved 
1111 – Not available 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64967 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 367 -
SPN 2894 Engine Alternate Droop Remote Accelerator Select State 
In some off-highway applications it may be desirable to have multiple droop settings available across the range of engine 
operation. For example, in an agricultural tractor application, this functionality allows a higher engine speed during low 
load so as to maximize vehicle speed driven between fields on the road. Another use of the alternate droop settings 
would be to provide functionality for maintaining an engine speed independent of the applied load on demand. There is a 
normal droop setting, and up to 13 additional preprogrammed droop settings which are user selectable by switching. The 
selections apply to Remote Accelerator. 
0000 – Control state is Normal Droop Setting 
0001 thru 1101 – Control state is One of Alternate Droop Setting 1 through 13 (in sequential order)
1110 – SAE reserved 
1111 – Not available 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64967 
SPN 2895 Engine Alternate Droop Auxiliary Input Select State 
In some off-highway applications it may be desirable to have multiple droop settings available across the range of engine 
operation. For example, in an agricultural tractor application, this functionality allows a higher engine speed during low 
load so as to maximize vehicle speed driven between fields on the road. Another use of the alternate droop settings 
would be to provide functionality for maintaining an engine speed independent of the applied load on demand. There is a 
normal droop setting, and up to 13 additional preprogrammed droop settings which are user selectable by switching. The 
selections apply to Auxiliary Input. 
0000 – Control state is Normal Droop Setting 
0001 thru 1101 – Control state is One of Alternate Droop Setting 1 through 13 (in sequential order) 
1110 – SAE reserved 
1111 – Not available 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64967 
SPN 2896 Engine Auxiliary Governor State 
This is the Engine Auxiliary Governor feature. This feature is used to allow engine speed to be controlled by an auxiliary 
input such as pressure or tailshaft speed. This feature is requested by an operator switch, this parameter indicates the 
state of the feature as determined by the controlling ECM. 
00 – Control State is Auxiliary Governor disabled 
01 – Control State is Auxiliary Governor enabled 
10 – SAE reserved 
11 – Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64967 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 368 -
SPN 2897 Operator Engine PTO Governor Memory Select Switch 
Measured state of the operator’s engine PTO governor memory select switch. This switch selects which of the two 
available memory locations is to be used to store the dynamically assigned value. This speed will be set using the PTO 
governor set switch and modified using the PTO governor accelerate and coast/decelerate switches. 
00 PTO set speed memory 1 selected 
01 PTO set speed memory 2 selected 
10 error 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65264 
SPN 2898 Engine Start Enable Device 2 Configuration 
The start enable device installed for start enable device 2. 
0000 - no start enable device 2 installed 
0001 - glow plugs installed 
0010 - fuelled start installed 
0011 - ether injection installed 
0100 - electric intake air heater installed 
0101 - 1110 - reserved 
1111 - not available 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64966 
SPN 2899 Engine Start Enable Device 1 Configuration 
The start enable device installed for start enable device 1. 
0000 - no start enable device 1 installed 
0001 - glow plugs installed 
0010 - fuelled start installed 
0011 - ether injection installed 
0100 - electric intake air heater installed 
0101 - 1110 - reserved 
1111 - not available 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64966 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 369 -
SPN 2900 Transmission Engine Crank Enable 
State signal from the transmission indicating if the transmission’s status is such that engine cranking is allowed (i.e. at a 
minimum, transmission is in neutral and the driveline is disengaged). As sender of this information, the transmission is 
responsible for correct indication immediately upon first broadcast of this parameter.
As with hard-wired neutral start implementations, those utilizing this parameter should consider the impact of the 
transmission or other controllers ‘resetting’ due to voltage drops during the engine start sequence. 
The vehicle system design should also consider the impact of timing latency in the engine starting sequence. For 
example, the turn of an ignition key from ‘off’ to ‘start’ may happen more quickly than the transmission controller can boot 
up, determine its’ current state of being, and begin broadcasting information over the J1939 datalink.
00 - Cranking disabled; engine cranking is prohibited by the transmission 
01 - Cranking enabled; engine cranking is allowed by the transmission 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65098 
SPN 2901 ECU Part Number 
The part number of the physical ECU. 
Data Length: Variable - up to 200 bytes followed by an "*" delimiter 
Resolution: ASCII, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 255 per byte Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64965 
SPN 2902 ECU Serial Number 
The serial number of the physical ECU. 
Data Length: Variable - up to 200 bytes followed by an "*" delimiter 
Resolution: ASCII, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 255 per byte Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64965 
SPN 2903 ECU Location 
The location of the ECU within a network. 
Data Length: Variable - up to 200 bytes followed by an "*" delimiter 
Resolution: ASCII, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 255 per byte Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64965 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 370 -
SPN 2904 ECU Type 
The type of ECU. One example of a use of the ECU type could be for classifying ECU capabilities, such as I/O. 
Data Length: Variable - up to 200 bytes followed by an "*" delimiter 
Resolution: ASCII, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 255 per byte Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64965 
SPN 2911 Halt brake switch 
Switch signal which indicates the position of the halt brake switch. 
00 Halt brake switch passive 
01 Halt brake switch active 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61441 
SPN 2912 Hill holder mode 
Signal which indicates the current mode of the hill holder function. 
000 Inactive 
001 Active 
010 Active, but will change to inactive in a short time. (This mode may be used to warn the driver) 
011 - 101 Reserved 
110 Hill holder not functional 
111 Not available 
Data Length: 3 bits 
Resolution: 8 states/3 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 7 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64964 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 371 -
(R) SPN 2913 Halt brake mode 
Signal which indicates the current mode of the halt brake function. The halt brake, when activated, applies brake 
pressure to prevent the vehicle from moving when it is stationary. 
000 Inactive 
001 Active 
010 Active, but not functioning properly. (This mode may be used to warn the driver) 
011 - 101 Not defined 
110 Halt brake not functional 
111 Not available 
Data Length: 3 bits 
Resolution: 8 states/3 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 7 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64964 
SPN 2914 XBR EBI Mode 
The XBR EBI (Endurance Brake Integration) Mode is used as an input for the brake system to prescribe the use of 
endurance brakes like retarders or engine brakes. 
00 - No Endurance Brake Integration allowed 
The demanded acceleration must be realized by the brake system by using only the foundation brakes. During an active 
XBR request, the brake system must not actively demand brake torque from other braking devices like retarders or 
engine brakes. 
01 - Only Endurance Brakes allowed 
The demanded acceleration must be realized by the brake system by demanding brake torque from other brake devices 
like retarders or engine brakes. The foundation brake itself must not be used (e.g. to reduce brake lining wear). 
10 - Endurance Brake Integration allowed 
The demanded acceleration may be realized by the brake system by using the foundation brakes and/or by demanding 
brake torque from other brake devices like retarders or engine brakes. 
11 - Not defined 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 1024 
SPN 2915 XBR Priority 
The XBR Priority is used as an input to the brake system to manage the priority of overlapping external and internal 
requests.
00 - Highest priority – used for emergency situations, e.g. for future Collision Avoidance System. This mode overrides 
any brake protection measures of the brake system. 
01 - High priority – not defined 
10 - Medium priority – used for ACC-Systems. This mode does not override brake protection measures of the brake 
system. 
11 - Low priority – used in ”override disabled” XBR Control Mode 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 1024 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 372 -
SPN 2916 XBR Control Mode 
The XBR Control Mode is used as an input to the brake system and defines how the external acceleration demand has to 
be realized. 
00 - Override disabled – Disable any existing control commanded by the source of this command. 
01 - Acceleration control with addition mode - Add the XBR acceleration demand to the driver’s acceleration demand. 
10 - Acceleration control with maximum mode - Execute the XBR acceleration demand if it is higher than the driver’s 
acceleration demand. 
11 - Not defined 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 1024 
SPN 2917 XBR System State 
This parameter indicates which external brake control is allowed. 
00 - Any external brake demand will be accepted (brake system fully operational) 
01 - Only external brake demand of highest XBR Priority (00) will be accepted (e.g. because the temperature limit of the 
brake system is exceeded) 
10 - No external brake demand will be accepted (e.g. because of fault in brake system) 
11 - not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64964 
SPN 2918 XBR Active Control Mode 
This parameter indicates which XBR Control Mode is executed by the brake system. 
0000 No brake demand being executed (default mode) 
0001 Driver's brake demand being executed, no external brake demand 
0010 Addition mode of XBR acceleration control being executed 
0011 Maximum mode of XBR acceleration control being executed 
0100 - 1110 Reserved for SAE assignment 
1111 Not available 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64964 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 373 -
SPN 2919 Foundation Brake Use 
This parameter indicates if the brake system presently uses the foundation brakes. 
00 Foundation brakes not in use 
01 Foundation brakes in use 
10 Reserved 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64964 
SPN 2920 External Acceleration Demand 
Parameter provided to the brake system from external sources. This is the acceleration which the brake system is 
expected to realize. It is specified as an absolute acceleration in reference to the road. Positive values lead to increasing 
vehicle speed, negative values lead to decreasing vehicle speed. Note: Normally only the negative data range is used, 
but e.g. in case of downhill driving also positive values are possible. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1/2048 m/s² per bit, -15.687 m/s² offset 
Data Range: -15.687 to +15.687 m/s² Operational Range: -10.0 to +10.0 m/s² 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 1024 
SPN 2921 XBR Acceleration Limit 
The brake system may temporarily or generally limit the maximum brake performance available for external systems. A 
temporary limit may be nessary due to high brake temperature; a general limit may be defined by the vehicle 
manufacturer, e.g. a value of -2.5 m/s² due to liability reasons. The actual limit is communicated to the external systems 
that request braking. The limit is only effective in the XBR Priorities 01 to 11. It is specified as an absolute acceleration in
reference to the road. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.1 m/s² per bit, -12.5 m/s² offset 
Data Range: -12.5 to +12.5 m/s² Operational Range: -10.0 to +10.0 m/s² 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64964 
SPN 2922 Steerable Lift Axle Lowering Inhibit 
A signal which indicates if lowering of lifted axle is allowed or inhibited. 
00 Lowering allowed 
01 Lowering inhibited 
10 Reserved 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61451 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 374 -
SPN 2923 Status of Steering Axle 
A signal which indicates different states of the steering axle 
0000 Axle steering not active (adhesion steering) 
0001 Axle steering active 
0010 Axle centered 
0011 Axle centered, because of an error 
0100 Axle not active because of an error (adhesion steering) 
0101 Axle steering in special mode (diagnosis, calibration mode) 
0110-1110 Reserved for SAE Assignment 
1111 Not available 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61451 
SPN 2924 Steering Type 
Indicates the different types of steering systems (ref. ECE Regulation 79 paragraph 2.5) 
0000 Main steering system 
0001 Auxiliary steering equipment 
0010-1110 Reserved for Assignment by SAE 
1111 Not Available 
0000 Main steering system - The steering equipment of a vehicle which is mainly responsible for determining the 
direction of travel. 
0001 Auxiliary steering equipment - A system in which the wheels on axle(s) of vehicles of categories M and N are 
steered in addition to the wheels of the main steering equipment in the same or opposite direction to those of the main 
steering equipment and/or the steering angle of the front and/or the rear wheels may be adjusted relative to vehicle 
behaviour.
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61451 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 375 -
SPN 2925 Type of Steering Forces 
Type of Steering Forces (Ref. ECE Regulation 79 paragraph 2.5) 
0000 Manual steering equipment 
0001 Power assisted steering equipment 
0010 Full power steering equipment 
0011 Self tracking steering equipment 
0100-1110 Reserved for SAE assignment 
1111 Not Available 
0000 Manual steering equipment - The steering forces result solely from the muscular effort of the driver. 
0001 Power assisted steering equipment - The steering forces result from both the muscular effort of the driver and the 
energy supply or supplies. 
0010 Full power steering equipment - The steering forces are provided solely by one or more energy supplies. 
0011 Self tracking steering equipment - A system designed to create a change of steering angle on one or more wheels 
only when acted upon by forces and/or moments applied through the tire to road contact. 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61451 
SPN 2926 Type of Steering Transmission 
Type of Steering Transmission (Ref. ECE Regulation 79 paragraph 2.6) 
0000 Purely mechanical steering transmission 
0001 Purely hydraulic steering transmission 
0010 Purely electric steering transmission 
0011 Hybrid steering transmission 
0100-1110 Reserved for SAE assignment 
1111 Not available 
0000 Purely mechanical steering transmission - A steering transmission in which the steering forces are transmitted 
entirely by mechanical means. 
0001 Purely hydraulic steering transmission - A steering transmission in which the steering forces, somewhere in the 
transmission, are transmitted only by hydraulic means. 
0010 Purely electric steering transmission - A steering transmission in which the steering forces, somewhere in the 
transmission, are transmitted only through electric means. 
0011 Hybrid steering transmission - A steering transmission in which part of the steering forces is transmitted through 
one and the other part through another of the above mentioned means. However, in the case where any mechanical part 
of the transmission is designed only to give position feedback and is too weak to transmit the total sum of the steering 
forces, this system shall be considered to be purely hydraulic or purely electric steering transmission. 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61451 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 376 -
(R) SPN 2927 Actual Inner wheel steering angle 
Signal which indicates the actual inner wheel steering angle. The steering angle is the angle of wheel turn relative to the 
vehicle x-axis (yaw angle of inner wheel). See Figure SPN2927_A for explanation of positive and negative angles. This 
parameter is defined according to a Z-Down axis system and the sign of the value is in accordance to the right-hand rule, 
as specified in SAE J670. As specified in SAE J670, a Z-Down Axis System has positive X directed forward, positive Y to 
the right, and positive Z directed down. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1/256 deg/bit, -125 deg offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 deg Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 2927 
PGN reference: 61451 
SPN 2928 Axle Location 
To identify to which of several similar devices (such as tires or fuel tanks) the information applies. 
The low order 4 bits represent a position number, counting left to right when facing in the direction of normal vehicle travel 
(forward).
The high order 4 bits represent a position number, counting front to back on the vehicle. 
The value 0xFF indicates not available. 
It is recommended that output devices add 1 to the position number (range 1 to 15, not 0 to 14) for use by drivers and 
service technicians. 
Examples: Tire pressure for location 0x00 would be left front tire. 
Tire pressure for location 0x23 would be right outside rear rear on a 3-axle tractor with dual axle per side (3rd axle, 4th 
tire).
Data Length: 8 bits 
Resolution: 256 states/8 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 255 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61451 
SPN 2930 Hydraulic Brake System Audible Warning Command 
Signal which commands an audible warning by the hydraulic braking system. 
00 Audible warning off 
01 Audible warning on 
10 Reserved 
11 Don't care 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64998 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 377 -
SPN 2931 Hydraulic Brake Fluid Level Switch 
Signal which indicates whether the hydraulic fluid level in the reservoir(s) is sufficient. 
00 Fluid level is not sufficient 
01 Fluid level is sufficient 
10 Error indicator 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64998 
SPN 2945 Active Shift Console Indicator 
Signal from transmission control unit indicating which shift console (primary or secondary) it currently considers as the 
active shift selector input. 
00 Primary shift console is active 
01 Secondary shift console is active 
10 Reserved 
11 Not available 
Note: In some applications such as refuse trucks, the transmission can be operated from two positions in the vehicle.
The transmission control unit will accept changes in transmission requested gear (SPN 525) from the operator only from 
the active shift console. The transmission control unit determines which shift console is active based on a switch input 
controlled by the operator and transmission system state criteria. 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65098 
SPN 2948 Engine Intake Valve Actuation System Oil Pressure 
The gage pressure of the oil in the hydraulic system that powers the engine intake valve actuation system 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1/256 MPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 251 MPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64961 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 378 -
SPN 2970 Accelerator Pedal 2 Low Idle Switch 
Switch signal which indicates the state of the accelerator pedal 2 low idle switch. The low idle switch is defined in SAE 
J1843.
00 Accelerator pedal 2 not in low idle condition 
01 Accelerator pedal 2 in low idle condition 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Note: Also refer to SPN 558 Accelerator Pedal 1 Low Idle Switch and SPN 2971 Accelerator Pedal 3 Low Idle Switch. 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61443 
(R) SPN 2978 Estimated Engine Parasitic Losses - Percent Torque 
The calculated torque that indicates the estimated amount of torque loss due to engine parasitics, such as cooling fan, air 
compressor, air conditioning, etc. It is expressed as a percent of Engine Reference Torque.
If there are multiple devices on a network that provide this parameter, then users of this data shall add each of these 
values to determine the total torque loss due to engine parasitics. Devices other than the engine that provide this 
parameter shall use the value of Engine Reference Torque transmitted by the engine during the current key cycle to 
determine the percent torque loss as seen by the engine. 
When the data value of this parameter is equal to FB it means that all parasitic losses calculated by the engine are 
included in the Engine's Nominal Friction Percent Torque (SPN 514). 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, -125 % offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 % Operational Range: 0 to 125% 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65247 
SPN 2979 Vehicle Acceleration Rate Limit Status 
Status (active or not active) of the system used to limit maximum forward vehicle acceleration. 
00 Limit not active 
01 Limit active 
10 Reserved 
11 Not available 
NOTE: The effects of emission control limits, such as engine exhaust smoke control, are specifically excluded; they are 
not considered to be part of a function to limit vehicle acceleration. 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61443 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 379 -
SPN 2980 Engine Fuel Valve 1 Outlet Absolute Pressure 
Absolute Pressure of gas on outlet side of the first or only fuel system control valve. See SPN 3469 for the second fuel 
control valve. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6,425.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65163 
SPN 2983 Clutch Life Remaining 
Signal which indicates the actual clutch life remaining in percent. One hundred percent means the clutch is brand new 
and zero percent means the clutch is at the end of its life. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65195 
SPN 2984 Automatic traction help (load transfer) 
This signal enables the traction help (load transfer) in case of an active ASR function 
00 Disable automatic traction help
01 Enable automatic traction help
10 Reserved 
11 Don't care 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 53760 
SPN 2985 Transmission Shift Selector Display Mode Switch 
Status of the operator’s switch used to ‘toggle’ through multiple display modes of a shift selector display.
When a shift selector display is capable of displaying more than just range information, this switch is toggled by the 
operator to move through the different display modes. If the selector has only two display modes, this switch may 
behave as a typical SPST switch. If the selector has more than two display modes, the switch may be momentary, where 
each activation indicates that the selector has scrolled through to the next subsequent display mode.
00 Off 
01 On 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 256 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 380 -
SPN 2986 Engine Intake Valve Actuation System Oil Temperature 
The temperature of the oil in the hydraulic system that powers the intake valve actuation system. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65129 
SPN 3026 Transmission Oil Level Measurement Status 
Indicates if conditions are acceptable to obtain a valid transmission oil level measurement as conveyed in SPN 124 
Transmission Oil Level or SPN 3027 Transmission Oil Level High / Low. If conditions are not acceptable, this parameter 
conveys to the operator what prevents conditions from being acceptable. Only one condition can be conveyed in this 
parameter at any given point in time. If multiple conditions exist, it is not important which condition is actually broadcast,
as the driver must ‘correct’ each and every condition as it is presented before a valid oil level reading can be made. If 
multiple conditions exist that prevent a valid reading, the sender should broadcast one of those conditions until it is 
corrected; then the next condition can be conveyed to the operator, and so on. 
0000 Conditions valid for transmission oil level measurement 
0001 Conditions not valid – Settling timer still counting down 
0010 Conditions not valid – Transmission in gear 
0011 Conditions not valid – Transmission fluid temperature too low 
0100 Conditions not valid – Transmission fluid temperature too high 
0101 Conditions not valid – Vehicle moving; output shaft speed too high 
0110 Conditions not valid – Vehicle not level 
0111 Conditions not valid – Engine speed too low 
1000 Conditions not valid – Engine speed too high 
1001 Conditions not valid – No request for reading 
1010 Not defined 
1011 Not defined 
1100 Not defined 
1101 Conditions not valid - Other 
1110 Error 
1111 Not available 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65272 
SPN 3027 Transmission Oil Level High / Low 
Amount of current volume of transmission sump oil compared to recommended volume. Positive values indicate overfill. 
Zero means the transmission fluild is filled to the recommended level. 
Parameter Specific Indicator: 
A value of FB hex indicates conditions are not acceptable for a valid fluid level measurement. 
Data Length: 1 bytes 
Resolution: 0.5 L/bit, -62.5 L offset 
Data Range: -62.5 to 62.5 L Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65272 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 381 -
SPN 3028 Transmission Oil Level Countdown Timer 
Once all vehicle conditions (such as vehicle stopped, etc) are met, some transmissions may require a ‘settling time’ to 
allow the fluid level to normalize. This parameter indicates how much of the required settling time remains. When time 
reaches 0, a valid oil level measurement value will be broadcast in SPN 3027 Transmission Oil Level High / Low. 
0000 less than 1 minute 
0001 One minute 
0010 Two minutes 
0011 Three minutes 
0100 Four minutes 
0101 Five minutes 
0110 Six minutes 
0111 Seven minutes 
1000 Eight minutes 
1001 Nine minutes 
1010 Ten minutes 
1011 Eleven minutes 
1100 Twelve minutes 
1101 Thirteen minutes 
1110 Error 
1111 Not Available 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: 0 to 13 minutes 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65272 
SPN 3030 Transmission Torque Converter Ratio 
Ratio of the transmissions torque converter output torque to torque converter input torque at current speed. 
The ratio of 1.000 ( 03 E8 hex ) indicates torque converter lockup. 
If the ratio is less than 1 and the ratio can not be properly determined it shall be set to a value of FB00 hex. 
Ratios above 1 indicate torque converter multiplication. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.001/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 64.255 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61452 
(R) SPN 3031 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 1 Temperature 
Temperature of the diesel exhaust fluid in the storage tank. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 deg C/bit, -40 deg C offset 
Data Range: -40 to 210 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 1761 
PGN reference: 65110 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 382 -
SPN 3043 Type of Passenger Count 
Used to notify transit link devices of the type of passenger counting system used in the vehicle. Some passenger 
counting systems indicate real-time boarding and exiting data for other devices to accumulate. Other types of passenger 
counters report a current on-board total relative to a transit door status, a fare collection status, or other signal which can
define the end of the boarding/exiting period and a stable underway totalized passenger count. 
0 - absolute passenger count 
1 - boarding passenger 
2 - exiting passenger 
3 - boarding passenger (second passenger stream) 
4 - exiting passenger (second passenger stream) 
5 to 250 - reserved for future assignment 
251 to 253 - reserved 
254 - error indicator 
255 - not available 
Data Length: 8 bits 
Resolution: 256 states/8 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 255 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64960 
SPN 3044 Silent Alarm Status 
Used to report silent alarm push button status. 
00 - Off 
01 - On 
10 - Error condition 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64960 
SPN 3045 Vehicle Use Status 
Used to indicate the proper or unauthorized use of the vehicle. The administrative control device or any device issuing the 
vehicle use status PID should be sensitive to the run switch status (SPN 3046) and any other locally defined criteria for 
authorized use (i.e., driver log-ons) before the vehicle use status PID is used to generate an unauthorized use alarm. 
00 - Normal use 
01 - Unauthorized use 
10 - Error condition 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64960 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 383 -
SPN 3046 Transit Run Status 
Status of the run switch for the vehicle. 
00 - Off 
01- On 
10 - Error condition 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64960 
SPN 3047 Patron Count 
Count of the number of passengers on a transit vehicle. If the type of passenger count (SPN 3043) is 0, the patron count 
indicates the number of patrons currently on vehicle after the door has closed. If the type of passenger count is 1 to 4,
the patron count indicates an incremental count of passengers since the last data transmittal. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 count/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64960 
SPN 3070 Number of bytes in the Milepost Identification 
Number of bytes in the Milepost Identification. This parameter identifies the length, in bytes, of the data in SPN 590 
(Milepost Identification). 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 byte/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 bytes Operational Range: 0 to 100 bytes 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64959 
SPN 3071 Number of bytes in the Transit Assigned Route Identity 
Number of bytes in the Transit Assigned Route Identity. This parameter identifies the length, in bytes, of the data in SPN 
3074 (Transit Assigned Route Identity). 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 byte/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 bytes Operational Range: 1 to 100 bytes 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64958 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 384 -
SPN 3072 Number of bytes in the Transit Assigned Run Identity 
Number of bytes in the Transit Assigned Run Identity. This parameter identifies the length, in bytes, of the data in SPN 
3075 (Transit Assigned Run Identity). 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 byte/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 bytes Operational Range: 1 to 100 bytes 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64958 
SPN 3073 Number of bytes in the Transit Assigned Block Identity 
Number of bytes in the Transit Assigned Block Identity. This parameter identifies the length, in bytes, of the data in SPN 
3076 (Transit Assigned Block Identity). 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 byte/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 bytes Operational Range: 1 to 100 bytes 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64958 
SPN 3074 Transit Assigned Route Identity 
Identifies the transit route assigned to a specific vehicle. The length of the ASCII text for this parameter must be reported 
using SPN 3071 (Number of bytes in the Transit Assigned Route Identity). 
Data Length: Variable - up to 100 bytes 
Resolution: ASCII, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 255 per byte Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64958 
SPN 3075 Transit Assigned Run Identity 
Identifies the transit run assigned to a specific vehicle. The length of the ASCII text for this parameter must be reported 
using SPN 3073 (Number of bytes in the Transit Assigned Run Identity). 
Data Length: Variable - up to 100 bytes 
Resolution: ASCII, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 255 per byte Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64958 
SPN 3076 Transit Assigned Block Identity 
Identifies the transit block assigned to a specific vehicle. The length of the ASCII text for this parameter must be reported 
using SPN 3073 (Number of bytes in the Transit Assigned Block Identity). 
Data Length: Variable - up to 100 bytes 
Resolution: ASCII, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 255 per byte Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64958 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 385 -
SPN 3078 Agency 
The identity of the agency involved in this transaction 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 count/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 255 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64958 
SPN 3079 Intersection Preemption Request/Response 
Status of the intersection signal preemption 
00 - Message is a request directed to the emitter 
01 - Message is a response from the emitter 
10 - Error condition 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64957 
SPN 3080 Transit Route ID Usage 
Transit route ID usage 
00 - Transit route ID not used for interleaved data 
01 - Transit route ID used for interleaved data (if range code not enabled) 
10 - Error condition 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64957 
SPN 3081 Range Code Enable 
Range code enable 
00 - Range code not used for interleaved data 
01 - Range code used for interleaved data 
10 - Error condition 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64957 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 386 -
SPN 3082 Strobe Activation Control Status 
Strobe activation control status 
00 - Deactivate strobe 
01 - Activate strobe 
10 - Error condition 
11 - Not available 
Note: Strobe will flash if not overridden by transit door status, strobe is working, and emitter is in the normal mode. 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64957 
SPN 3083 Transit Door Enable 
Transit door enable 
00 - Ignore transit door status 
01 - Transit door status will override strobe activation 
10 - Error condition 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64957 
SPN 3084 Priority of Response Sent by Emitter 
Priority of response sent by emitter 
0000 - Reserved 
0001 - Low priority 
0010 - Probe priority 
0011 - High priority 
0100 to 1000 - Reserved 
1001 - Priority set by hardware to low priority 
1010 - Priority set by hardware to probe priority 
1011 - Priority set by hardware to high priority 
1100 to 1101 - Reserved 
1110 - Error condition 
1111 - Not available 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64957 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 387 -
SPN 3085 Vehicle ID 
Numerical designation of the vehicle. 65535 is used to represent the vehicle ID is not available. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1 count/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 65,535 Operational Range: 0 to 65,534 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64957 
SPN 3086 Transmission Ready for Brake Release 
This parameter indicates that enough torque / motive force is available at the transmission output shaft to release all the 
brakes without a risk of unintentional movement in the opposite direction. 
00 - Transmission Not Ready for Brake Release 
01 - Transmission Ready for Brake Release 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65098 
SPN 3087 Auxiliary Level 
Level measured by a sensor. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 mm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6,425.5 mm (0 to 6.4255 m) Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65164 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 388 -
SPN 3156 Blade Control Mode Switch 
This parameter indicates the blade control mode switch state the user has set for the land leveling system. The switch 
value directly correlates to the current switch state, regardless of the switch being used. This parameter is intended for 
use in systems using only one parameter to control the blade movement (i.e. elevation). Systems using two independent 
parameters to control blade position, i.e. one blade edge maintains a constant elevation and the other blade edge 
maintains a constant blade angle, should use parameters specific to that usage. Only one of the following states will be 
active at a time. Below are the data values defined for each switch type that may be used in this application. The 
purpose of the following switch information is to define what data should be reported based on what type of switch is 
used.
1. A toggle button with two states can be used, in which the button is either in the manual or the auto position at all times.
 Toggle button usage is as follows: 
 Manual Position = 0010 Manual button pressed 
 Auto Position = 0011 Automatic button pressed 
2. The momentary rocker switch may be used, where the default is the no button pressed position. The user can press 
the rocker into the manual position, and when pressure is released, it will return to the no button pressed position. The 
user may also press the rocker into the auto position, and when pressure is released, it will return to the no button 
pressed position. Momentary rocker button usage is as follows: 
 No Button Pressed = 0000 No button pressed 
 Manual Button Pressed = 0010 Manual button pressed 
 Auto Button Pressed = 0011 Automatic button pressed 
3. The momentary contact button pair may be used, where the default is no buttons being pressed. The user can press 
the manual button, and when pressure is released, it will return to the no button pressed position. The user may press 
the auto button, and when pressure is released, it will return to the no button pressed position. Momentary contact 
buttons (button pair) usage is as follows: 
 No Button Pressed = 0000 No button pressed 
 Manual Button Pressed = 0010 Manual button pressed 
 Auto Button Pressed = 0011 Automatic button pressed 
4. The momentary contact single button may be used, where the default is no button being pressed. The user can 
press the button, which is the button pressed position, and when pressure is released, it will return to the no button 
pressed position. The controller receiving this command will keep track of what mode the blade is in, auto or manual.
When the button is pressed, the "mode button pressed" state is reported and the receiving controller then changes the 
current mode to its opposite value (i.e. manual to automatic or vise-versa). Momentary contact button (single button) 
usage is as follows: 
 No Button Pressed = 0000 No button pressed 
 Button Pressed = 0001 Mode button pressed 
Data Values and Descriptions: 
0000 No button pressed 
0001 Mode button pressed 
0010 Manual button pressed 
0011 Automatic button pressed 
1110 Error Indicator 
1111 Not Installed 
All other values are reserved 
Notes:
1. The switch state can be read in two ways. One method uses the direct analog switch input to determine the switch 
state, while the second method relies on a secondary control to read the analog input, then relay the information on the 
data link. The parameter is designed to provide the actual switch state to other controls that need the information. 
2. Other systems with automated blade controls should be able to use this parameter, since it is a measured switch 
value.
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 389 -
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61453 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 390 -
SPN 3157 Desired Grade Offset Switch 
This parameter indicates the grade offset switch state the user has set for the land leveling system. The desired grade 
offset value is the vertical offset measured from a given elevation reference point to the bottom edge of the blade. This 
parameter is intended for use in systems using only elevation offset to control the blade movement (i.e. elevation).
Systems using two independent parameters to control blade position, i.e. one edge maintains a constant elevation and 
the other blade edge maintains a constant angle, should use parameters specific to that usage. Only one of the following 
states will be active at a time. Below are the data values defined for each switch type that may be used in this 
application. The purpose of the following switch information is to define what data should be reported based on what type 
of switch is used. 
1. The momentary rocker switch may be used, where the default is the no button pressed position. The user can press 
the rocker into the increment button pressed position, and when pressure is released, it will return to the no button 
pressed position. The user may also press the rocker into the decrement button pressed position, and when pressure is 
released, it will return to the no button pressed position. Momentary rocker button usage is as follows: 
 No Button Pressed = 0000 No button pressed 
 Increment Button Pressed = 0001 Increment button pressed 
 Decrement Button Pressed = 0010 Decrement button pressed 
2. The momentary contact button pair may be used, where the default is the no buttons pressed position. The user can 
press the increment button, and when pressure is released, it will return to the no buttons pressed position. The user may 
press the decrement button, and when pressure is released, it will return to the no buttons pressed position. Momentary 
contact button (button pair) usage is as follows: 
 No Button Pressed = 0000 No button pressed 
 Increment Button Pressed = 0001 Increment button pressed 
 Decrement Button Pressed = 0010 Decrement button pressed 
Data Values and Descriptions: 
0000 No button pressed 
0001 Increment button pressed 
0010 Decrement button pressed 
1110 Error Indicator 
1111 Not installed 
All other values are reserved 
Notes:
1. The switch state can be read in two ways. One method uses the direct analog switch input to determine the switch 
state, while the second method relies on a secondary control to read the analog input, then relay the information on the 
data link. The parameter is designed to provide the actual switch state to other controls that need the information. 
2. Other systems with automated blade controls should be able to use this parameter, since it is a measured switch 
value.
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61453 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 391 -
SPN 3158 Blade Auto Mode Command 
Allows other controllers to command to the primary control system what they think is the appropriate auto control mode to 
be engaged in, based on the information they have available to them. When in automatic mode, the blade automatically 
adjusts its position to the center of the blade to maintain a desired grade offset. Only one of the following states will be 
active at a time. Below is extended information describing each command. The purpose of this information is to define 
what command state should be reported based on what auto control mode command is deemed appropriate by the 
operational specifications of the system. 
 0000 Auto Allowed - Auto mode permitted as appropriate (auto button was pushed or directly returned from Suspend 
Auto condition) 
 0001 Activity Allows Auto - Auto mode permitted only if the primary control system detects operator activity. The control 
issuing this command does not have sufficient information/reason to absolutely allow Auto mode (state 0000) or not allow 
Auto mode (state 0100). The control issuing this command is permitting the primary control system to operate in auto 
mode only if the primary control system detects operator activity, such as direct input to the primary control system. If the 
primary control system does not detect operator activity, then the control issuing this command is not allowing auto mode. 
For example, the control issuing this command has detected no operator activity yet it acknowledges that there may be 
other sources of operator activity that might make auto mode permissible. 
 0010 Suspend Auto - Auto mode is temporarily not allowed and the control issuing this command wants the primary 
control system to automatically return to the previous state (Auto or Manual) when the suspend auto condition is 
removed.
 0011 Service Mode - Auto mode is permitted only for special services such as calibrations. 
 0100 Auto Not Allowed - Auto mode is not allowed under any condition 
Data Values and Descriptions: 
0000 Auto Allowed 
0001 Activity Allows Auto - must detect operator before auto allowed 
0010 Suspend Auto - temporarily suspend auto mode 
0011 Service Mode - auto allowed only during service modes 
0100 Auto Not Allowed 
1110 Error Indicator 
1111 Not Supported 
All other values are reserved 
Note:
The control issuing this command is aware that it does not have access to all information that the primary controller of the 
Land Leveling System attachment has access to. Therefore, it commands the Land Leveling system to activate a auto 
blade mode based on the input it has access to. In some cases, like in the "Activity Allows Auto" situation, the control 
knows the Land Leveling system has access to an additional display (which has switches and several buttons) which may 
help determine if an operator is present. On the other hand, the control may also have information the primary controller 
of the Land Leveling System does not have access to, like the parking brake status. 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61453 
SPN 3159 Trip Number 
The identity number assigned to this trip. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1 count/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 65,535 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64956 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 392 -
SPN 3160 Assigned Route 
The identity number assigned to this route. 
Note: This is the numerical value for the route as opposed to the "Transit Assigned Route Identity" (SPN 3074) which is 
variable length ASCII or the "Route number" (SPN 3169) which is 12 bit numeric. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1 count/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 65,535 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64956 
SPN 3161 Pattern Number 
The agency defined pattern number for this trip 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1 count/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 65,535 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64956 
SPN 3162 Assigned Run 
The agency defined run number for this trip 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1 count/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 65,535 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64956 
SPN 3163 Assigned Block 
The agency defined block number for this trip 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1 count/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 65,535 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64956 
SPN 3164 Driver's farebox security code 
Security code for the farebox, numerical only. 
Note: 0 = Farebox is in reporting status 
 1 - 65535 = security code 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1 count/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 65,535 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64956 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 393 -
SPN 3165 Fare Validity 
Agency defined value indicating validity of this fare 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 1 count/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64955 
SPN 3166 Pass Category 
Agency defined value indicating the category of the passenger associated with this fare 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 1 count/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64955 
SPN 3167 Initial Fare Agency 
Identifies where the initial fare is paid 
Note: The definition of the agency numbering plan shall be agreed by the operating agency and the farebox 
manufacturer. The value of 0 is reserved, the usable range is 1 to 31. 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: 1 count/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: 1 to 31 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64955 
SPN 3168 Transfer Sold 
Indicates that a transfer was sold or issued on this transaction including its type and/or restrictions. The final definitions of
the transfer issued information shall be agreed by the operating agency and the farebox manufacturer. 
Note: A non-zero value indicates that a transfer was sold or issued. The value of zero is reserved to indicate that no 
transfer has been sold or issued. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 count/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 255 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64955 
SPN 3169 Route Number 
The route number issuing the transfer. 
Data Length: 12 bits 
Resolution: 1 count/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 4095 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64955 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 394 -
SPN 3170 Transaction Type 
Enumerated value representing the type of transaction completed 
0000 = Cash 
0001 = Token 
0010 = Ticket 
0011 = Pass 
0100 = Card 
0101 = Permit 
0110 = Transfer 
0111 = Free 
1000-1011 = Reserved for assignment 
1100-1111 = Agency defined 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64955 
SPN 3171 Passenger Type 
Enumerated value representing the type/class of passenger, as defined by the agency. 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64955 
SPN 3172 Type of Service 
The type of service provided 
000 = Local service 
001 = Express service 
010-111 = Agency defined 
Data Length: 3 bits 
Resolution: 8 states/3 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 7 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64955 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 395 -
SPN 3173 Transfer Type 
The kind of transfer used 
00000 = North 
00001 = South 
00010 = East 
00011 = West 
00100 = In 
00101 = Out 
00110-11111 = Agency defined 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: 32 states/5 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64955 
SPN 3174 Trip Direction 
The general direction of travel for this trip. 
0000 = North 
0001 = South 
0010 = East 
0011 = West 
0100 = In 
0101 = Out 
0110-1111 = Agency defined 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64956 
SPN 3175 Fare Presets 
Fare Presets 
00000000 to 00001111 = Agency defined 
00010000 to 11111111 = Reserved for assignment 
Data Length: 8 bits 
Resolution: 256 states/8 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 255 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64956 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 396 -
SPN 3176 Type of Fare 
Type of Fare 
0000 = Cash/No detail 
0001 = Token A 
0010 = Token B 
0011 = Ticket A 
0100 = Ticket B 
0101 = Pass A 
0110 = Pass B 
0111-1010 = Reserved for assignment 
1011-1111 = Agency defined 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64955 
SPN 3177 Payment Details 
Payment details. 
0000 = Not an upgrade 
0001 = Cash 
0010 = Token 
0011 = Ticket 
0100 = Pass 
0101 = Card 
0110-1010 = Reserved for assignment 
1011-1111 = Agency defined 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64955 
SPN 3178 Farebox Service Status 
Indicates if the farebox is in or out of service. 
00 = Farebox out of service 
01 = Farebox in service 
10 = Error Condition 
11 = Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64956 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 397 -
SPN 3179 Farebox Emergency Status 
Indicates if a farebox emergency condition exists. 
00 = Non-emergency condition 
01 = Emergency condition 
10 = Error Condition 
11 = Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64954 
SPN 3180 Trip Status 
Trip Status 
000 = Undefined 
001 = Trip start 
010 = Trip end 
011 = Undefined 
100 = Undefined 
101 = Layover start 
110 = Layover end 
111 = Undefined 
Data Length: 3 bits 
Resolution: 8 states/3 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 7 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64956 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 398 -
SPN 3181 Farebox Alarm Identifier 
Indicates the nature of the farebox alarm condition. 
0000000 = Voltage dropout 
0000001 = Voltage restored 
0000010 = Probe started 
0000011 = Probe completed 
0000100 = Cashbox removed 
0000101 = Cashbox restored 
0000110 = Cashbox door timeout 
0000111 = Cashbox opened in service, considered an alarm condition 
0001000 = Insufficient fare accepted 
0001001 = Coinbox 75% full 
0001010 = Coinbox full 
0001011 = Currency box 75% full 
0001100 = Currency box less than 75% full 
0001101 = Currency box full 
0001110 = Card/pass box 75% full 
0001111 = Card/pass box less than 75% full 
0010000 = Card/pass box full 
0010001 = Coin de-jam operated 
0010010 = Farebox set in manual bypass 
0010011 = Farebox reset to automatic mode 
0010100 = Pass/transfer jam 
0010101 = Pass/transfer jam cleared 
0010110 = Paper currency jam 
0010111 = Paper currency jam cleared 
0011000 = Maintenance access in service, considered an alarm condition 
0011001 = Maintenance access out of service 
0011010-1100000 = Reserved - to be assigned 
1100001-1111111 = Agency defined 
Data Length: 7 bits 
Resolution: 128 states/7 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 127 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64954 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 399 -
SPN 3188 XBR Message Checksum 
The XBR message checksum is used to verify the signal path from the demanding device to the brake controller on 
electronic brake systems. The support of this parameter is mandatory if PGN 1024 is supported as there is no means to 
indicate “not available”. 
The 4 bit XBR message checksum is calculated using the first 7 data bytes, the 4 bit message counter and the bytes of 
the message identifier. It is calculated as follows: 
Checksum = (Byte1 + Byte2 + Byte3 + Byte4 + Byte5 + Byte6 + Byte7 + message counter&0x0F + message ID low byte + 
message ID mid low byte + message ID mid high byte + message ID high byte) 
XBR Message Checksum = ((Checksum >> 4) + Checksum) & 0x0F 
Note: A failure in the communication sets the XBR system state: 
 - to '01' for failed XBR 'priority 01, 10 or 11' messages 
 - to '10' for failed XBR 'priority 00' messages. 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 1 count/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 1024 
SPN 3189 XBR Message Counter 
The XBR message counter is to verify the signal path from the demanding device to the brake controller on electronic 
brake systems.. The support of this parameter is mandatory. 
Note: The initial value of the 4 bit message counter for the first message during a driving cycle is arbitrary. In every 
following message the counter is incremented by 1 (0 follows 15). 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 1 count/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 1024 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 400 -
SPN 3190 Tire Location 
Identifies which tire is associated with the parametric data in this PGN. 
The low order 4 bits represent a position number, counting left to right when facing in the direction of normal vehicle travel 
(forward).
The high order 4 bits represent a position number, counting front to back on the vehicle. 
The value 0xFF indicates not available. 
It is recommended that output devices add 1 to the position number (range 1 to 15, not 0 to 14) for use by drivers and 
service technicians. 
Examples: Tire pressure for location 0x00 would be left front tire. 
Tire pressure for location 0x23 would be right outside rear rear on a 3-axle tractor with dual axle per side (3rd axle, 4th 
tire).
Data Length: 8 bits 
Resolution: 256 states/8 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 255 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64953 
SPN 3191 Reference Tire Pressure 
Reference value of the tire pressure as basis for the tire pressure monitoring 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 8 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 2,000 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64953 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 401 -
SPN 3192 Tire Location 
Identifies which tire is associated with the parametric data in this PGN. 
The low order 4 bits represent a position number, counting left to right when facing in the direction of normal vehicle travel 
(forward).
The high order 4 bits represent a position number, counting front to back on the vehicle. 
The value 0xFF indicates not available. 
It is recommended that output devices add 1 to the position number (range 1 to 15, not 0 to 14) for use by drivers and 
service technicians. 
Examples: Tire pressure for location 0x00 would be left front tire. 
Tire pressure for location 0x23 would be right outside rear rear on a 3-axle tractor with dual axle per side (3rd axle, 4th 
tire).
Data Length: 8 bits 
Resolution: 256 states/8 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 255 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 44544 
SPN 3193 Reference Tire Pressure Setting 
Reference value of the tire pressure setting as basis for the tire pressure monitoring 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 8 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 2,000 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 44544 
SPN 3215 Prohibit air suspension control 
This parameter is an external request to the air suspension control system to prohibit all air suspension control. If the 
request is accepted, response intended to be sent in ASC1 (additional status requested in ASC1), there will be no 
control either for height changes or axle load distribution changes, i.e. hold current pressures in all suspension devices. 
00 No request
01 Request prohibit air suspension control
10 Error indicator
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 53760 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 402 -
SPN 3216 Aftertreatment 1 Intake NOx 
The amount of combined NO and NO2 in the exhaust entering the aftertreatment system measured by a NOx sensor at 
the aftertreatment intake, represented in NOx molecule parts per million non-NOx molecules in exhaust bank 1. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.05 ppm/bit, -200 ppm offset 
Data Range: -200 to 3012.75 ppm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61454 
SPN 3217 Aftertreatment 1 Intake O2 
The actual oxidation factor (%O2) of the gas within the exhaust stream. For positive values, the parameter represents the 
percent oxygen in excess of the amount required for stoichiometric combustion. For negative values, the parameter is 
proportional to the amount of oxygen being pumped by the sensor. This value is measured by a sensor at the 
aftertreatment intake in exhaust bank 1. 
A value of -12% (0x0000) indicates rich, a value of 21% (0xFAFF) indicates lean. These data points could optionally be 
used with switching O2 sensors to indicate those states as alternatives to broadcasting the threshold %O2 values. 
Diagnostic Tools could change display to use the text "Rich" or "Lean" in place of the implied %O2 values which would 
also be acceptable for display. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.000514 %/bit, -12 % offset 
Data Range: -12% to 21% Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61454 
SPN 3218 Aftertreatment 1 Intake Gas Sensor Power Status 
Indicates that the power supplied to the aftertreatment intake gas sensor, either NOx or O2, is within the manufacturer’s 
specification in exhaust bank 1. 
00 - Not in range 
01 - In range 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61454 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 403 -
(R) SPN 3219 Aftertreatment 1 Intake Gas Sensor at Temperature 
Indicates that the heater element of the aftertreatment intake gas sensor, either NOx or O2, is within the manufacturer’s 
specified range for accurate measurements in exhaust bank 1. 
00 - Not in range 
01 - In range 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61454 
SPN 3220 Aftertreatment 1 Intake NOx Reading Stable 
Indicates that the NOx reading of the aftertreatment intake NOx sensor is stable as determined by the manufacturer’s 
control software in exhaust bank 1. 
00 - Not stable 
01 - Stable 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61454 
SPN 3221 Aftertreatment 1 Intake Wide-Range % O2 Reading Stable 
Indicates that the %O2 reading of the aftertreatment intake gas sensor, either NOx or O2, is stable as determined by the 
manufacturer's control software in exhaust bank 1. 
00 - Not stable 
01 - Stable 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61454 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 404 -
SPN 3222 Aftertreatment 1 Intake Gas Sensor Heater Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI detected in the heater of the intake exhaust gas sensor, either NOx or O2, 
by the manufacturer’s sensor control software in exhaust bank 1. When there is no failure FMI 31 is sent. In the case of 
multiple failures the most severe is communicated. 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: Binary, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61454 
SPN 3223 Aftertreatment 1 Intake Gas Sensor Heater Control 
Indicates the heater status in the warm-up process. Upon receiving a power-up command, the gas sensor ramps up 
according to a manufacturer defined profile. The Preheat 1, Preheat 2, and Automatic messages are regions within this 
profile in exhaust bank 1. 
00 - Automatic 
01 - Preheat 2 
10 - Preheat 1 
11 - Heater off 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61454 
SPN 3224 Aftertreatment 1 Intake NOx Sensor Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI detected in the aftertreatment intake NOx sensor by the manufacturer’s 
sensor control software in exhaust bank 1. When there is no failure FMI 31 is sent. In the case of multiple failures the 
most severe is communicated. 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: Binary, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61454 
SPN 3225 Aftertreatment 1 Intake Oxygen Sensor Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI detected in the aftertreatment intake oxygen sensor by the manufacturer’s 
sensor control software in exhaust bank 1. When there is no failure FMI 31 is sent. In the case of multiple failures the 
most severe is communicated. 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: Binary, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61454 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 405 -
(R) SPN 3226 Aftertreatment 1 Outlet NOx 
The amount of combined NO and NO2 in the exhaust exiting the aftertreatment system measured by a NOx sensor at the 
aftertreatment outlet, represented in NOx molecule parts per million non-NOx molecules in exhaust bank 1. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.05 ppm/bit, -200 ppm offset 
Data Range: -200 to 3012.75 ppm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61455 
SPN 3227 Aftertreatment 1 Outlet O2 
The actual oxidation factor (%O2) of the gas within the exhaust stream. For positive values, the parameter represents the 
percent oxygen in excess of the amount required for stoichiometric combustion. For negative values, the parameter is 
proportional to the amount of oxygen being pumped by the sensor. This value is measured by a sensor at the 
aftertreatment outlet in exhaust bank 1. 
A value of -12% (0x0000) indicates rich, a value of 21% (0xFAFF) indicates lean. These data points could optionally be 
used with switching O2 sensors to indicate those states as alternatives to broadcasting the threshold %O2 values. 
Diagnostic Tools could change display to use the text "Rich" or "Lean" in place of the implied %O2 values which would 
also be acceptable for display. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.000514 %/bit, -12 % offset 
Data Range: -12% to 21% Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61455 
SPN 3228 Aftertreatment 1 Outlet Gas Sensor Power Status 
Indicates that the power supplied to the aftertreatment outlet gas sensor, either NOx or O2, is within the manufacturer’s 
specification in exhaust bank 1. 
00 - Not in range 
01 - In range 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61455 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 406 -
SPN 3229 Aftertreatment 1 Outlet Gas Sensor at Temperature 
Indicates that the heater element of the aftertreatment outlet gas sensor, either NOx or O2, is within the manufacturer’s 
specified range for accurate measurements in exhaust bank 1. 
00 - Not in range 
01 - In range 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61455 
SPN 3230 Aftertreatment 1 Outlet NOx Reading Stable 
Indicates that the NOx reading of the aftertreatment outlet NOx sensor is stable as determined by the manufacturer’s 
control software in exhaust bank 1. 
00 - Not stable 
01 - Stable 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61455 
SPN 3231 Aftertreatment 1 Outlet Wide-Range %O2 Reading Stable 
Indicates that the %O2 reading of the aftertreatment outlet gas sensor, either NOx or O2, is stable as determined by the 
manufacturer's control software in exhaust bank 1. 
00 - Not stable 
01 - Stable 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61455 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 407 -
SPN 3232 Aftertreatment 1 Outlet Gas Sensor Heater Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI detected in the heater of the outlet exhaust gas sensor, either NOx or O2, by 
the manufacturer’s sensor control software in exhaust bank 1. When there is no failure FMI 31 is sent. In the case of 
multiple failures the most severe is communicated. 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: Binary, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61455 
SPN 3233 Aftertreatment 1 Outlet Gas Sensor Heater Control 
Indicates the heater status in the warm-up process. Upon receiving a power-up command, the gas sensor ramps up 
according to a manufacturer defined profile. The Preheat 1, Preheat 2, and Automatic messages are regions within this 
profile in exhaust bank 1. 
00 - Automatic 
01 - Preheat 2 
10 - Preheat 1 
11 - Heater off 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61455 
SPN 3234 Aftertreatment 1 Outlet NOx Sensor Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI detected in the aftertreatment outlet NOx sensor by the manufacturer’s 
sensor control software in exhaust bank 1. When there is no failure FMI 31 is sent. In the case of multiple failures the 
most severe is communicated. 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: Binary, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61455 
SPN 3235 Aftertreatment 1 Outlet Oxygen Sensor Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI detected in the aftertreatment outlet oxygen sensor by the manufacturer’s 
sensor control software in exhaust bank 1. When there is no failure FMI 31 is sent. In the case of multiple failures the 
most severe is communicated. 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: Binary, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61455 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 408 -
SPN 3236 Aftertreatment 1 Exhaust Gas Mass Flow 
Measured/calculated exhaust gas mass upstream of the aftertreatment system in exhaust bank 1 and 2. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.2 kg/h per bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 12851 kg/h per bit Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65247 
SPN 3237 Aftertreatment 1 Intake Dew Point 
Indicates that the temperature on the intake side of the aftertreatment system has exceeded the dew point, as estimated 
by the ECM in exhaust bank 1. 
00 - Not exceeded the dew point 
01 - Exceeded the dew point 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65247 
SPN 3238 Aftertreatment 1 Exhaust Dew Point 
Indicates that the temperature on the exhaust side of the aftertreatment has exceeded the dew point, as estimated by the 
ECM in exhaust bank 1. 
00 - Not exceeded the dew point 
01 - Exceeded the dew point 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65247 
SPN 3239 Aftertreatment 2 Intake Dew Point 
Indicates that the temperature on the intake side of the aftertreatment system has exceeded the dew point, as estimated 
by the ECM in exhaust bank 2. 
00 - Not exceeded the dew point 
01 - Exceeded the dew point 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65247 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 409 -
SPN 3240 Aftertreatment 2 Exhaust Dew Point 
Indicates that the temperature on the exhaust side of the aftertreatment has exceeded the dew point, as estimated by the 
ECM in exhaust bank 2. 
00 - Not exceeded the dew point 
01 - Exceeded the dew point 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65247 
SPN 3241 Aftertreatment 1 Exhaust Gas Temperature 1 
The reading from the exhaust gas temperature sensor located farthest upstream in the aftertreatment system in exhaust 
bank 1. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 64948 
PGN reference: 64948 
SPN 3242 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Particulate Filter Intake Gas Temperature 
Temperature of engine combustion byproducts entering the diesel particulate filter in exhaust bank 1. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 64948 
PGN reference: 64948 
SPN 3243 Aftertreatment 1 Exhaust Gas Temperature 1 Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI detected in the exhaust gas temperature 1 sensor by the manufacturer’s 
sensor control software in exhaust bank 1. When there is no failure FMI 31 is sent. In the case of multiple failures the 
most severe is communicated. 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: Binary, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64948 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 410 -
SPN 3244 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Particulate Filter Intake Gas Temperature Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI detected in the diesel particulate filter intake gas temperature sensor by the 
manufacturer’s sensor control software in exhaust bank 1. When there is no failure FMI 31 is sent. In the case of multiple 
failures the most severe is communicated. 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: Binary, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64948 
SPN 3245 Aftertreatment 1 Exhaust Gas Temperature 3 
The reading from the exhaust gas temperature sensor located farthest downstream in the aftertreatment system in 
exhaust bank 1. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 64948 
PGN reference: 64947 
SPN 3246 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Particulate Filter Outlet Gas Temperature 
Temperature of engine combustion byproducts leaving the diesel particulate filter exhaust in exhaust bank 1. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 64948 
PGN reference: 64947 
SPN 3247 Aftertreatment 1 Exhaust Gas Temperature 3 Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI detected in the exhaust gas temperature 3 sensor by the manufacturer’s 
sensor control software in exhaust bank 1. When there is no failure FMI 31 is sent. In the case of multiple failures the 
most severe is communicated. 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: Binary, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64947 
SPN 3248 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Particulate Filter Outlet Exhaust Gas Temperature Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI detected in the diesel particulate filter outlet gas temperature sensor by the 
manufacturer’s sensor control software in exhaust bank 1. When there is no failure FMI 31 is sent. In the case of multiple 
failures the most severe is communicated. 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: Binary, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64947 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 411 -
SPN 3249 Aftertreatment 1 Exhaust Gas Temperature 2 
The reading from the exhaust gas temperature sensor located midstream of the other two temperature sensors in the 
aftertreatment system in exhaust bank 1. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 64948 
PGN reference: 64946 
SPN 3250 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Particulate Filter Intermediate Gas Temperature 
Temperature of engine combustion byproducts at a mid-point in the diesel particulate filter in exhaust bank 1. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 64948 
PGN reference: 64946 
SPN 3251 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Particulate Filter Differential Pressure 
Exhaust differential pressure measured between the intake and exhaust of a diesel particulate filter in exhaust bank 1. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6,425.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 64948 
PGN reference: 64946 
SPN 3252 Aftertreatment 1 Exhaust Gas Temperature 2 Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI detected in the exhaust gas temperature 2 sensor by the manufacturer’s 
sensor control software in exhaust bank 1. When there is no failure FMI 31 is sent. In the case of multiple failures the 
most severe is communicated. 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: Binary, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64946 
SPN 3253 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Particulate Filter Delta Pressure Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI detected in the diesel particulate filter differential pressure sensor by the 
manufacturer’s sensor control software in exhaust bank 1. When there is no failure FMI 31 is sent. In the case of multiple 
failures the most severe is communicated. 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: Binary, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64946 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 412 -
SPN 3254 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Particulate Filter Intermediate Gas Temperature Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI detected in the diesel particulate filter intermediate gas temperature sensor 
by the manufacturer’s sensor control software in exhaust bank 1. When there is no failure FMI 31 is sent. In the case of 
multiple failures the most severe is communicated. 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: Binary, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64946 
SPN 3255 Aftertreatment 2 Intake NOx 
The amount of combined NO and NO2 in the exhaust entering the aftertreatment system measured by a NOx sensor at 
the aftertreatment intake, represented in NOx molecule parts per million non-NOx molecules in exhaust bank 2. (For a 
single exhaust bank system, refer to parameters in PGNs 61454, 61455, 64946, 64947, 64948, and 65247.) 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.05 ppm/bit, -200 ppm offset 
Data Range: -200 to 3012.75 ppm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61456 
SPN 3256 Aftertreatment 2 Intake O2 
The actual oxidation factor (%O2) of the gas within the exhaust stream. For positive values, the parameter represents the 
percent oxygen in excess of the amount required for stoichiometric combustion. For negative values, the parameter is 
proportional to the amount of oxygen being pumped by the sensor. This value is measured by a sensor at the 
aftertreatment intake in exhaust bank 2. (For a single exhaust bank system, refer to parameters in PGNs 61454, 61455,
64946, 64947, 64948, and 65247) 
A value of -12% (0x0000) indicates rich, a value of 21% (0xFAFF) indicates lean. These data points could optionally be 
used with switching O2 sensors to indicate those states as alternatives to broadcasting the threshold %O2 values. 
Diagnostic Tools could change display to use the text "Rich" or "Lean" in place of the implied %O2 values which would 
also be acceptable for display. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.000514 %/bit, -12 % offset 
Data Range: -12% to 21% Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61456 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 413 -
SPN 3257 Aftertreatment 2 Intake Gas Sensor Power Status 
Indicates that the power supplied to the aftertreatment intake gas sensor, either NOx or O2, is within the manufacturer’s 
specification in exhaust bank 2. (For a single exhaust bank system, refer to parameters in PGNs 61454, 61455, 64946, 
64947, 64948, and 65247) 
00 - Not in range 
01 - In range 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61456 
SPN 3258 Aftertreatment 2 Intake Gas Sensor at Temperature 
Indicates that the heater element of the aftertreatment intake gas sensor, either NOx or O2, is within the manufacturer’s 
specified range for accurate measurements in exhaust bank 2. (For a single exhaust bank system, refer to parameters 
in PGNs 61454, 61455, 64946, 64947, 64948, and 65247) 
00 - Not in range 
01 - In range 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61456 
SPN 3259 Aftertreatment 2 Intake NOx Reading Stable 
Indicates that the NOx reading of the aftertreatment intake NOx sensor is stable as determined by the manufacturer’s 
control software in exhaust bank 2. (For a single exhaust bank system, refer to parameters in PGNs 61454, 61455,
64946, 64947, 64948, and 65247) 
00 - Not stable 
01 - Stable 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61456 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 414 -
SPN 3260 Aftertreatment 2 Intake Wide-Range % O2 Reading Stable 
Indicates that the %O2 reading of the aftertreatment intake gas sensor, either NOx or O2, is stable as determined by the 
manufacturer's control software in exhaust bank 2. (For a single exhaust bank system, refer to parameters in PGNs 
61454, 61455, 64946, 64947, 64948, and 65247) 
00 - Not stable 
01 - Stable 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61456 
SPN 3261 Aftertreatment 2 Intake Gas Sensor Heater Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI detected in the heater of the intake exhaust gas sensor, either NOx or O2, 
by the manufacturer’s sensor control software in exhaust bank 2. When there is no failure FMI 31 is sent. In the case of 
multiple failures the most severe is communicated. (For a single exhaust bank system, refer to parameters in PGNs 
61454, 61455, 64946, 64947, 64948, and 65247) 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: Binary, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61456 
SPN 3262 Aftertreatment 2 Intake Gas Sensor Heater Control 
Indicates the heater status in the warm-up process. Upon receiving a power-up command, the gas sensor ramps up 
according to a manufacturer defined profile. The Preheat 1, Preheat 2, and Automatic messages are regions within this 
profile in exhaust bank 2. (For a single exhaust bank system, refer to parameters in PGNs 61454, 61455, 64946, 64947, 
64948, and 65247) 
00 - Automatic 
01 - Preheat 2 
10 - Preheat 1 
11 - Heater off 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61456 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 415 -
SPN 3263 Aftertreatment 2 Intake NOx Sensor Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI detected in the aftertreatment intake NOx sensor by the manufacturer’s 
sensor control software in exhaust bank 2. When there is no failure FMI 31 is sent. In the case of multiple failures the 
most severe is communicated. (For a single exhaust bank system, refer to parameters in PGNs 61454, 61455, 64946, 
64947, 64948, and 65247) 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: Binary, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61456 
SPN 3264 Aftertreatment 2 Intake Oxygen Sensor Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI detected in the aftertreatment intake oxygen sensor by the manufacturer’s 
sensor control software in exhaust bank 2. When there is no failure FMI 31 is sent. In the case of multiple failures the 
most severe is communicated. (For a single exhaust bank system, refer to parameters in PGNs 61454, 61455, 64946, 
64947, 64948, and 65247) 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: Binary, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61456 
SPN 3265 Aftertreatment 2 Outlet NOx 
The amount of combined NO and NO2 in the exhaust entering the aftertreatment system measured by a NOx sensor at 
the aftertreatment outlet, represented in NOx molecule parts per million non-NOx molecules in exhaust bank 2. (For a 
single exhaust bank system, refer to parameters in PGNs 61454, 61455, 64946, 64947, 64948, and 65247) 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.05 ppm/bit, -200 ppm offset 
Data Range: -200 to 3012.75 ppm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61457 
SPN 3266 Aftertreatment 2 Outlet O2 
The actual oxidation factor (%O2) of the gas within the exhaust stream. For positive values, the parameter represents the 
percent oxygen in excess of the amount required for stoichiometric combustion. For negative values, the parameter is 
proportional to the amount of oxygen being pumped by the sensor. This value is measured by a sensor at the 
aftertreatment outlet in exhaust bank 2. (For a single exhaust bank system, refer to parameters in PGNs 61454, 61455,
64946, 64947, 64948, and 65247) 
A value of -12% (0x0000) indicates rich, a value of 21% (0xFAFF) indicates lean. These data points could optionally be 
used with switching O2 sensors to indicate those states as alternatives to broadcasting the threshold %O2 values. 
Diagnostic Tools could change display to use the text "Rich" or "Lean" in place of the implied %O2 values which would 
also be acceptable for display. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.000514 %/bit, -12 % offset 
Data Range: -12% to 21% Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61457 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 416 -
SPN 3267 Aftertreatment 2 Outlet Gas Sensor Power Status 
Indicates that the power supplied to the aftertreatment outlet gas sensor, either NOx or O2, is within the manufacturer’s 
specification in exhaust bank 2. (For a single exhaust bank system, refer to parameters in PGNs 61454, 61455, 64946, 
64947, 64948, and 65247) 
00 - Not in range 
01 - In range 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61457 
SPN 3268 Aftertreatment 2 Outlet Gas Sensor at Temperature 
Indicates that the heater element of the aftertreatment outlet gas sensor, either NOx or O2, is within the manufacturer’s 
specified range for accurate measurements in exhaust bank 2. (For a single exhaust bank system, refer to parameters in 
PGNs 61454, 61455, 64946, 64947, 64948, and 65247) 
00 - Not in range 
01 - In range 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61457 
SPN 3269 Aftertreatment 2 Outlet NOx Reading Stable 
Indicates that the NOx reading of the aftertreatment outlet NOx sensor is stable as determined by the manufacturer’s 
control software in exhaust bank 2. (For a single exhaust bank system, refer to parameters in PGNs 61454, 61455,
64946, 64947, 64948, and 65247) 
00 - Not stable 
01 - Stable 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61457 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 417 -
SPN 3270 Aftertreatment 2 Outlet Wide-Range % O2 Reading Stable 
Indicates that the %O2 reading of the aftertreatment outlet gas sensor, either NOx or O2, is stable as determined by the 
manufacturer's control software in exhaust bank 2. (For a single exhaust bank system, refer to parameters in PGNs 
61454, 61455, 64946, 64947, 64948, and 65247) 
00 - Not stable 
01 - Stable 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61457 
SPN 3271 Aftertreatment 2 Outlet Gas Sensor Heater Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI detected in the heater of the outlet exhaust gas sensor, either NOx or O2, by 
the manufacturer’s sensor control software in exhaust bank 2. When there is no failure FMI 31 is sent. In the case of 
multiple failures the most severe is communicated. (For a single exhaust bank system, refer to parameters in PGNs 
61454, 61455, 64946, 64947, 64948, and 65247) 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: Binary, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61457 
SPN 3272 Aftertreatment 2 Outlet Gas Sensor Heater Control 
Indicates the heater status in the warm-up process. Upon receiving a power-up command, the gas sensor ramps up 
according to a manufacturer defined profile. The Preheat 1, Preheat 2, and Automatic messages are regions within this 
profile in exhaust bank 2. (For a single exhaust bank system, refer to parameters in PGNs 61454, 61455, 64946, 64947, 
64948, and 65247) 
00 - Automatic 
01 - Preheat 2 
10 - Preheat 1 
11 - Heater off 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61457 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 418 -
SPN 3273 Aftertreatment 2 Outlet NOx Sensor Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI detected in the aftertreatment outlet NOx sensor by the manufacturer’s 
sensor control software in exhaust bank 2. When there is no failure FMI 31 is sent. In the case of multiple failures the 
most severe is communicated. (For a single exhaust bank system, refer to parameters in PGNs 61454, 61455, 64946, 
64947, 64948, and 65247) 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: Binary, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61457 
SPN 3274 Aftertreatment 2 Outlet Oxygen Sensor Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI detected in the aftertreatment outlet oxygen sensor by the manufacturer’s 
sensor control software in exhaust bank 2. When there is no failure FMI 31 is sent. In the case of multiple failures the 
most severe is communicated. (For a single exhaust bank system, refer to parameters in PGNs 61454, 61455, 64946, 
64947, 64948, and 65247) 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: Binary, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61457 
SPN 3275 Aftertreatment 2 Exhaust Gas Temperature 1 
The reading from the exhaust gas temperature sensor located farthest upstream in the aftertreatment system in exhaust 
bank 2. (For a single exhaust bank system, refer to parameters in PGNs 61454, 61455, 64946, 64947, 64948, and 
65247)
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 64948 
PGN reference: 64945 
SPN 3276 Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Particulate Filter Intake Gas Temperature 
Temperature of engine combustion byproducts entering the diesel particulate filter in exhaust bank 2. (For a single 
exhaust bank system, refer to parameters in PGNs 61454, 61455, 64946, 64947, 64948, and 65247) 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 64948 
PGN reference: 64945 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 419 -
SPN 3277 Aftertreatment 2 Exhaust Gas Temperature 1 Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI detected in the exhaust gas temperature 1 sensor by the manufacturer’s 
sensor control software in exhaust bank 2. When there is no failure FMI 31 is sent. In the case of multiple failures the 
most severe is communicated. (For a single exhaust bank system, refer to parameters in PGNs 61454, 61455, 64946, 
64947, 64948, and 65247) 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: Binary, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64945 
SPN 3278 Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Particulate Filter Intake Gas Temperature Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI detected in the diesel particulate filter intake gas temperature sensor by the 
manufacturer’s sensor control software in exhaust bank 2. When there is no failure FMI 31 is sent. In the case of multiple 
failures the most severe is communicated. (For a single exhaust bank system, refer to parameters in PGNs 61454, 
61455, 64946, 64947, 64948, and 65247) 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: Binary, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64945 
SPN 3279 Aftertreatment 2 Exhaust Gas Temperature 3 
The reading from the exhaust gas temperature sensor located farthest downstream in the aftertreatment system in 
exhaust bank 2. (For a single exhaust bank system, refer to parameters in PGNs 61454, 61455, 64946, 64947, 64948, 
and 65247) 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 64948 
PGN reference: 64944 
SPN 3280 Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Particulate Filter Outlet Gas Temperature 
Temperature of engine combustion byproducts leaving the diesel particulate filter exhaust in exhaust bank 2. (For a 
single exhaust bank system, refer to parameters in PGNs 61454, 61455, 64946, 64947, 64948, and 65247) 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 64948 
PGN reference: 64944 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 420 -
SPN 3281 Aftertreatment 2 Exhaust Gas Temperature 3 Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI detected in the exhaust gas temperature 3 sensor by the manufacturer’s 
sensor control software in exhaust bank 2. When there is no failure FMI 31 is sent. In the case of multiple failures the 
most severe is communicated. (For a single exhaust bank system, refer to parameters in PGNs 61454, 61455, 64946, 
64947, 64948, and 65247) 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: Binary, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64944 
SPN 3282 Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Particulate Filter Exhaust Gas Temperature Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI detected in the diesel particulate filter outlet gas temperature sensor by the 
manufacturer’s sensor control software in exhaust bank 2. When there is no failure FMI 31 is sent. In the case of multiple 
failures the most severe is communicated. (For a single exhaust bank system, refer to parameters in PGNs 61454, 
61455, 64946, 64947, 64948, and 65247) 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: Binary, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64944 
SPN 3283 Aftertreatment 2 Exhaust Gas Temperature 2 
The reading from the exhaust gas temperature sensor located midstream of the other two temperature sensors in the 
aftertreatment system in exhaust bank 2. (For a single exhaust bank system, refer to parameters in PGNs 61454, 61455, 
 64946, 64947, 64948, and 65247) 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 64948 
PGN reference: 64943 
SPN 3284 Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Particulate Filter Intermediate Gas Temperature 
Temperature of engine combustion byproducts at a mid-point in the diesel particulate filter in exhaust bank 2. (For a 
single exhaust bank system, refer to parameters in PGNs 61454, 61455, 64946, 64947, 64948, and 65247) 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 64948 
PGN reference: 64943 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 421 -
SPN 3285 Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Particulate Filter Differential Pressure 
Exhaust differential pressure measured between the intake and exhaust of a diesel particulate filter in exhaust bank 2.
(For a single exhaust bank system, refer to parameters in PGNs 61454, 61455, 64946, 64947, 64948, and 65247) 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6,425.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 64948 
PGN reference: 64943 
SPN 3286 Aftertreatment 2 Exhaust Gas Temperature 2 Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI detected in the exhaust gas temperature 2 sensor by the manufacturer’s 
sensor control software in exhaust bank 2. When there is no failure FMI 31 is sent. In the case of multiple failures the 
most severe is communicated. (For a single exhaust bank system, refer to parameters in PGNs 61454, 61455, 64946, 
64947, 64948, and 65247) 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: Binary, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64943 
SPN 3287 Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Particulate Filter Delta Pressure Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI detected in the diesel particulate filter differential pressure sensor by the 
manufacturer’s sensor control software in exhaust bank 2. When there is no failure FMI 31 is sent. In the case of multiple 
failures the most severe is communicated. (For a single exhaust bank system, refer to parameters in PGNs 61454, 
61455, 64946, 64947, 64948, and 65247) 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: Binary, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64943 
SPN 3288 Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Particulate Filter Intermediate Gas Temperature Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI detected in the diesel particulate filter intermediate gas temperature sensor 
by the manufacturer’s sensor control software in exhaust bank 2. When there is no failure FMI 31 is sent. In the case of 
multiple failures the most severe is communicated. (For a single exhaust bank system, refer to parameters in PGNs 
61454, 61455, 64946, 64947, 64948, and 65247) 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: Binary, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64943 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 422 -
SPN 3289 Transmission Requested Gear Feedback 
Feedback of the SPN 525 Transmission Requested Gear input as received from the shift selector, ABS or engine via 
PGN 256, Transmission Control 1 (TC1) or other transmission selector input. Scaling, values and parameter specific 
indicators are identical to those listed for SPN 525 Requested Gear. 
This feedback from the transmission allows shift selectors and other TC1 input devices to verify that their Transmission 
Requested Gear command has been properly received by the transmission. (This parameter is not intended for driver 
display purposes). 
In systems with mechanical or electrical shift selectors which do not support J1939 communication, this parameter allows 
the transmission ECU to convey the requested gear as interpreted by the transmission from its mechanical or electrical 
input.
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 gear value/bit, -125 offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65098 
SPN 3307 Fifth Wheel Error Status 
Fifth wheel error state which conveys information when coupling status is incomplete or bad. 
0000 0 - Improper Couple 
0001 1 - Locks Closed / No Kingpin at Startup 
0010 2 - Kingpin / Locks Open at Startup 
0011 3 - Not Used 
0100 4 - Not Used 
0101 5 - Coupling Sequence Error 
0110 6 - Coupling Sequence Error / Kingpin 
0111 7 - Coupling Timing Error 
1000 8 - Kingpin Missing More Than 5 Seconds 
1001 9 - Kingpin / Lock Open (Handle Pulled) 
1010 10 - Not Used 
1011 11 - Not Used 
1100 12 - Not Used 
1101 13 - Not Used 
1110 14 - Not Used 
1111 15 - Not available 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64942 
SPN 3308 Fifth Wheel Vertical Force 
The amount of load being applied to the fifth wheel by the trailer. Zero load is indicated without a trailer. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 5 N/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 321,275 N Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61458 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 423 -
SPN 3309 Fifth Wheel Drawbar Force 
Fifth wheel drawbar force, with the trailer held stationary a positive force is generated by the vehicle pulling forward. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 10 N/bit, -320,000 N offset 
Data Range: -320,000 to 322,550 N Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61458 
SPN 3310 Fifth Wheel Roll Moment 
Fifth wheel roll moment force - If the moment is positive, the trailer is rolling clockwise relative to the normal vehicle 
forward motion. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 10 N/bit, -320,000 N offset 
Data Range: -320,000 to 322,550 N Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61458 
SPN 3311 Fifth Wheel Slider Position 
Slider position measurement. Zero equals fully back position, that is, the farthest to the rear of the vehicle. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 10 mm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 2500 mm (0 to 2.500 m) Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64942 
SPN 3312 Fifth Wheel Lock Ready to Couple Indicator 
Indicates to the vehicle operator that the fifth wheel lock is open and ready to couple. 
00 Lock not open, not ready to couple 
01 Lock open, ready to couple 
10 Error 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64942 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 424 -
SPN 3313 Fifth Wheel Lock Couple Status Indicator 
Indicates results of coupling operation to the vehicle operator. For incomplete couples further information can be obtained 
from the fifth wheel error status SPN. 
00 Incomplete or bad couple, truck should not be moved 
01 Successful couple detected 
10 Error 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64942 
SPN 3314 Fifth Wheel Release Control 
Operator input used to release the fifth wheel. Fifth Wheel Release Control Security Lockout and other conditions must be 
properly enabled before this will function. 
00 Coupler Locked 
01 Coupler Unlocked, trailer can be unhitched or hitched 
10 Error 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64980 
SPN 3315 Fifth Wheel Release Control Security Lockout 
Operator's fifth wheel release control interlock. This operator input must be enabled prior to activating the fifth wheel 
release control (SPN 3314).
00 Fifth wheel release Disabled 
01 Fifth wheel release Enabled 
10 Error
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64980 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 425 -
SPN 3316 Fifth Wheel Slider Lock Indicator 
Indicates to vehicle operator that the fifth wheel slider is in position and locked.
00 Not Locked 
01 Locked 
10 Error 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64942 
SPN 3317 Fifth Wheel Roll Warning Indicator 
Indicates to the vehicle operator that the roll moment has exceeded a preset limit.
00 Limit not exceeded 
01 Limit exceeded 
10 error 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61458 
(R) SPN 3318 Pitch Angle 
The angle between the vehicle x-axis and the ground plane (i.e. rotation about the vehicle Y-axis). The pitch angle for an 
angle of ascent is reported with a positive value. This parameter is defined according to a Z-Down axis system and the 
sign of the value is in accordance to the right-hand rule, as specified in SAE J670. As specified in SAE J670, a Z-Down 
Axis System has positive X directed forward, positive Y to the right, and positive Z directed down. See SPN 4976 for an 
alternate range and resolution. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.002 deg/bit, -64 offset 
Data Range: -64 to 64.51 deg Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61459 
(R) SPN 3319 Roll Angle 
The angle between the vehicle y-axis and the ground plane (i.e. rotation about the X-axis). The roll angle for a roll to the 
right is reported with a positive value. Roll angle is the same for both Z-Down and Z-Up axis systems, since both systems 
have positive X axis directed forward. The sign of the value is in accordance to the right-hand rule, as specified in SAE 
J670. See SPN 4977 for an alternate range and resolution. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.002 deg/bit, -64 offset 
Data Range: -64 to 64.51 deg Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61459 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 426 -
(R) SPN 3322 Pitch Rate 
Pitch rate is the rate-of-change of the pitch angle over time, where the pitch angle vector is in the direction of travel of the
vehicle. The pitch rate for increasing ascent over time is reported with a positive value. This parameter is defined 
according to a Z-Down axis system and the sign of the value is in accordance to the right-hand rule, as specified in SAE 
J670. As specified in SAE J670, a Z-Down Axis System has positive X directed forward, positive Y to the right, and 
positive Z directed down. See SPN 4983 for an alternate range and resolution. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.002 deg/sec per bit, -64 deg/sec offset 
Data Range: -64 to 64.51 deg/sec Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61459 
SPN 3323 Pitch Angle Figure of Merit 
Figure of merit for pitch angle measurement. 
Bit 2 Bit 1 
0 0 Pitch angle fully functional. Data is within sensor specification.
0 1 Pitch angle degraded. Data is suspect due to environmental conditions. 
1 0 Error 
1 1 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61459 
SPN 3324 Roll Angle Figure of Merit 
Figure of merit for roll angle measurement. 
Bit 4 Bit 3 
0 0 Roll angle fully functional. Data is within sensor specification.
0 1 Roll angle degraded. Data is suspect due to environmental conditions. 
1 0 Error 
1 1 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61459 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 427 -
SPN 3325 Pitch Rate Figure of Merit 
Figure of merit for the pitch rate measurement. 
Bit 6 Bit 5 
0 0 Pitch rate fully functional. Data is within sensor specification.
0 1 Pitch rate degraded. Data is suspect due to environmental conditions. 
1 0 Error 
1 1 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61459 
SPN 3326 Pitch and Roll Compensated 
Compensated mode for the pitch and roll measurements. Compensation is the use of multiple sensors together to 
enhance the output of pitch and roll measurements. 
Bit 8 Bit 7 
0 0 Compensation Off 
0 1 Compensation On 
1 0 Error 
1 1 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61459 
SPN 3327 Roll and Pitch Measurement Latency 
The estimated measurement latency of the measurement. NOTE: This is only the sensor latency and does not include 
any additional latencies that might exist because of the CAN Bus or overall system implementation.
Latency is the time from sensor readings to the queuing of the message data for CAN transmission. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.5 ms/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 125 ms Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61459 
(R) SPN 3331 Blade Rotation Angle 
The blade rotation angle measurement around the yaw (z-axis). The Blade Rotation Angle is defined to be the angle from 
the null position on the machine. The null position is orthogonal from the z-axis along the x-axis. A positive blade angle 
results when the blade is rotated clockwise from the null position. This parameter is defined according to a Z-Down axis 
system and the sign of the value is in accordance to the right-hand rule, as specified in SAE J670. As specified in SAE 
J670, a Z-Down Axis System has positive X directed forward, positive Y to the right, and positive Z directed down. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1/128 deg/bit, -200 deg offset 
Data Range: -200 to 301.99 deg Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61460 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 428 -
SPN 3332 Blade Rotation Angle Figure of Merit 
Figure of merit for blade rotation measurement. 
Bits 
00 Blade Rotation Angle fully functional. Data is within sensor specification.
01 Blade Rotation Angle degraded. Data is suspect due to environmental conditions. 
10 Blade Rotation Angle failed. Roll sensor failed to operate correctly. 
11 Blade Rotation Angle not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61460 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 429 -
SPN 3334 Left Blade Control Mode Operator Control 
This parameter indicates the left blade control mode operator control state the user has set for the land leveling system.
The operator control value directly relates to the current operator control state correlating to the left edge of the blade.
The purpose of this parameter is to set the control mode (auto/manual) for the left side of the blade. For this system, the 
left and right side of the blade can be adjusted independently of each other to either change the elevation from a given 
reference point or the blade angle (also known as blade tilt)/cross slope depending on the function requested by the 
operator.
This parameter is intended for use in systems using two parameters (right/left) to control the blade as described above.
Systems using only one parameter to control blade position, i.e. elevation, should use the Blade Control Mode Switch 
parameter. Only one of the following states will be active at a time. In the example below, data values are defined for 
each switch type that may be used in an application. The purpose of the following switch information is to define what 
data should be reported based on what type of switch is used. 
1. A toggle button with two states can be used, in which the button is either in the manual or the auto position at all times.
Toggle button usage is as follows: 
 Manual Button Pressed = 0010 Manual Operator Control Request 
 Automatic Button Pressed = 0011 Automatic Operator Control Request 
 Invalid Switch Input(ex. auto and manual read/pressed simultaneously) = 1110 Error Indicator 
2. The momentary rocker switch may be used, where the default is the no button pressed position. The user can press 
the rocker into the manual position, and when pressure is released, it will return to the no button pressed position. The 
user may also press the rocker into the auto position, and when pressure is released, it will return to the no button 
pressed position. 
Momentary rocker button usage is as follows: 
 No button pressed = 0000 No change 
 Manual Button Pressed = 0010 Manual Operator Control Request 
 Automatic Button Pressed = 0011 Automatic Operator Control Request 
 Invalid Switch Input(ex. auto and manual read/pressed simultaneously) = 1110 Error Indicator 
3. The momentary contact button pair may be used, where the default is no buttons being pressed. The user can press 
the manual button, and when pressure is released, it will return to the no button pressed position. The user may press 
the auto button, and when pressure is released, it will return to the no button pressed position. 
Momentary contact buttons (button pair) usage is as follows: 
 No button pressed = 0000 No change 
 Manual Button Pressed = 0010 Manual Operator Control Request 
 Automatic Button Pressed = 0011 Automatic Operator Control Request 
 Invalid Switch Input(ex. auto and manual read/pressed simultaneously) = 1110 Error Indicator 
4. The momentary contact single button may be used, where the default is no button being pressed. The user can press 
the button, which is the button pressed position, and when pressure is released, it will return to the no button pressed 
position. The controller receiving this command will keep track of what mode the blade is in, auto or manual. If the blade 
is in manual mode to begin with, one press of the button will change to mode to auto. If the button is pressed again, the 
blade will be put into manual mode. 
Momentary contact button (single button) usage is as follows: 
 No button pressed = 0000 No change 
 Mode Button Pressed = 0001 Momentary Operator Control Request 
Data Values and Descriptions: 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 430 -
0000 No Change 
0001 Momentary Operator Control Request 
0010 Manual Operator Control Request 
0011 Automatic Operator Control Request 
1100 - 1101 Reserved 
1110 Error Indicator 
1111 Not Installed 
Notes:
1. The operator control state can be read in two ways. One method uses the direct operator control input to determine 
the operator control state, while the second method relies on a secondary control to read the operator control input, then 
relay the information on the data link. The parameter is designed to provide the actual operator control state to other 
controls that need the information. 
2. Other systems with automated blade controls should be able to use this parameter, since it is an actual operator 
control value. 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61453 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 431 -
SPN 3335 Right Blade Control Mode Operator Control 
This parameter indicates the right blade control mode operator control state the user has set for the land leveling system. 
 The operator control value directly relates to the current operator control state correlating to the left edge of the blade.
The purpose of this parameter is to set the control mode (auto/manual) for the left side of the blade. For this system, the 
left and right side of the blade can be adjusted independently of each other to either change the elevation from a given 
reference point or the blade angle (also known as blade tilt)/cross slope depending on the function requested by the 
operator.
This parameter is intended for use in systems using two parameters(right/left) to control the blade as described above.
Systems using only one parameter to control blade position, i.e. elevation, should use the Blade Control Mode Switch 
parameter. Only one of the following states will be active at a time. In the example below, data values are defined for 
each switch type that may be used in an application. The purpose of the following switch information is to define what 
data should be reported based on what type of switch is used. 
1. A toggle button with two states can be used, in which the button is either in the manual or the auto position at all times.
Toggle button usage is as follows: 
 Manual Button Pressed = 0010 Manual Operator Control Request 
 Automatic Button Pressed = 0011 Automatic Operator Control Request 
 Invalid Switch Input(ex. auto and manual read/pressed simultaneously) = 1110 Error Indicator 
2. The momentary rocker switch may be used, where the default is the no button pressed position. The user can press 
the rocker into the manual position, and when pressure is released, it will return to the no button pressed position. The 
user may also press the rocker into the auto position, and when pressure is released, it will return to the no button 
pressed position. 
Momentary rocker button usage is as follows: 
 No button pressed = 0000 No change 
 Manual Button Pressed = 0010 Manual Operator Control Request 
 Automatic Button Pressed = 0011 Automatic Operator Control Request 
 Invalid Switch Input(ex. auto and manual read/pressed simultaneously) = 1110 Error Indicator 
3. The momentary contact button pair may be used, where the default is no buttons being pressed. The user can press 
the manual button, and when pressure is released, it will return to the no button pressed position. The user may press 
the auto button, and when pressure is released, it will return to the no button pressed position. 
Momentary contact buttons (button pair) usage is as follows: 
 No button pressed = 0000 No change 
 Manual Button Pressed = 0010 Manual Operator Control Request 
 Automatic Button Pressed = 0011 Automatic Operator Control Request 
 Invalid Switch Input(ex. auto and manual read/pressed simultaneously) = 1110 Error Indicator 
4. The momentary contact single button may be used, where the default is no button being pressed. The user can press 
the button, which is the button pressed position, and when pressure is released, it will return to the no button pressed 
position. The controller receiving this command will keep track of what mode the blade is in, auto or manual. If the blade 
is in manual mode to begin with, one press of the button will change to mode to auto. If the button is pressed again, the 
blade will be put into manual mode. 
Momentary contact button (single button) usage is as follows: 
 No button pressed = 0000 No change 
 Mode Button Pressed = 0001 Momentary Operator Control Request 
Data Values and Descriptions: 
0000 No Change 
0001 Momentary Operator Control Request 
0010 Manual Operator Control Request 
0011 Automatic Operator Control Request 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 432 -
1110 Error Indicator 
1111 Not Installed 
All other values reserved 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61453 
SPN 3336 Left Desired Blade Offset Operator Control 
This parameter indicates the left blade offset operator control state the user has set for the land leveling system. The left 
desired blade offset value is the offset measured from a given reference point to the bottom left edge of the blade. This 
parameter will only be used when the control mode for land leveling system has been set to auto. The purpose of this 
parameter is to adjust the elevation from a given reference point or the blade angle(also known as blade tilt)/cross slope 
depending on the function being requested by the operator for the left side of the blade. 
This parameter is intended for use in systems using two parameters(left/right) to control the blade as described above.
Systems using only one parameter to control blade position, i.e. elevation, should use the Desired Blade Offset Switch 
parameter. Only one of the following states will be active at a time. 
In the example below, data values are defined for each switch type that may be used in an application. The purpose of 
the following switch information is to define what data should be reported based on what type of switch is used. 
1. The momentary rocker switch may be used, where the default is the neutral position with no buttons pressed. The user 
can press the rocker into the increment button pressed position, and when pressure is released, it will return to the neutral 
position. The user may also press the rocker into the decrement button pressed position, and when pressure is released, 
it will return to the neutral position. Momentary rocker button usage is as follows: 
 Neutral position = 0000 No Operator Control Request 
 Increment Button Pressed = 0001 Increment Operator Control Request 
 Decrement Button Pressed = 0010 Decrement Operator Control Request 
 Invalid Switch Input(ex. inc./dec. values read simultaneously) = 1110 Error Indicator 
2. The momentary contact button pair may be used, where the default is the neutral position with no buttons pressed.
The user can press the increment button, and when pressure is released, it will return to the neutral position. The user 
may press the decrement button, and when pressure is released, it will return to the neutral position. Momentary contact 
button (button pair) usage is as follows: 
 No Button Pressed = 0000 No Operator Control Request 
 Increment Button Pressed = 0001 Increment Operator Control Request 
 Decrement Button Pressed = 0010 Decrement Operator Control Request 
 Invalid Switch Input(ex. inc./dec. values read simultaneously) = 1110 Error Indicator 
Data Values and Descriptions: 
0000 No Operator Control Request 
0001 Increment Operator Control Request 
0010 Decrement Operator Control Request 
0011 - 1101 Reserved 
1110 Error Indicator 
1111 Not installed 
Notes: 
1. The operator control state can be read in two ways. One method uses the direct operator control input to determine 
the operator control state, while the second method relies on a secondary control to read the operator control input, then 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 433 -
relay the information on the data link. The parameter is designed to provide the actual operator control state to other 
controls that need the information. 
2. Other systems with automated blade controls should be able to use this parameter, since it is an actual operator 
control value. 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61453 
SPN 3337 Right Desired Blade Offset Operator Control 
This parameter indicates the right blade offset operator control state the user has set for the land leveling system. The 
right desired blade offset value is the offset measured from a given reference point to the bottom right edge of the blade. 
This parameter will only be used when the control mode for land leveling system has been set to auto. The purpose of 
this parameter is to adjust the elevation from a given reference point or the blade angle(also known as blade tilt)/cross 
slope depending on the function being requested by the operator for the left side of the blade. 
This parameter is intended for use in systems using two parameters(left/right) to control the blade as described above.
Systems using only one parameter to control blade position, i.e. elevation, should use the Desired Blade Offset Switch 
parameter. Only one of the following states will be active at a time. 
In the example below, data values are defined for each switch type that may be used in an application. The purpose of 
the following switch information is to define what data should be reported based on what type of switch is used. 
1. The momentary rocker switch may be used, where the default is the neutral position with no buttons pressed. The user 
can press the rocker into the increment button pressed position, and when pressure is released, it will return to the neutral 
position. The user may also press the rocker into the decrement button pressed position, and when pressure is released, 
it will return to the neutral position. Momentary rocker button usage is as follows: 
 Neutral position = 0000 No Operator Control Request 
 Increment Button Pressed = 0001 Increment Operator Control Request 
 Decrement Button Pressed = 0010 Decrement Operator Control Request 
 Invalid Switch Input(ex. inc./dec. values read simultaneously) = 1110 Error Indicator 
2. The momentary contact button pair may be used, where the default is the neutral position with no buttons pressed.
The user can press the increment button, and when pressure is released, it will return to the neutral position. The user 
may press the decrement button, and when pressure is released, it will return to the neutral position. Momentary contact 
button (button pair) usage is as follows: 
 No Button Pressed = 0000 No Operator Control Request 
 Increment Button Pressed = 0001 Increment Operator Control Request 
 Decrement Button Pressed = 0010 Decrement Operator Control Request 
 Invalid Switch Input(ex. inc./dec. values read simultaneously) = 1110 Error Indicator 
Data Values and Descriptions: 
0000 No Operator Control Request 
0001 Increment Operator Control Request 
0010 Decrement Operator Control Request 
0011 - 1101 Reserved 
1110 Error Indicator 
1111 Not installed 
Notes: 
1. The operator control state can be read in two ways. One method uses the direct operator control input to determine 
the operator control state, while the second method relies on a secondary control to read the operator control input, then 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 434 -
relay the information on the data link. The parameter is designed to provide the actual operator control state to other 
controls that need the information. 
2. Other systems with automated blade controls should be able to use this parameter, since it is an actual operator 
control value. 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61453 
SPN 3338 Side-shift Blade Control Mode Operator Control 
This parameter indicates the side-shift offset operator control state the user has set for the land leveling system. When an 
implement moves in a side-shift direction, it moves from side to side, usually along its longitudinal axis. The desired sideshift offset value is the offset measured from a given vertical reference point to the center of the blade. 
Only one of the following states will be active at a time. In the example below, the data values are defined for each switch 
type that may be used in an application. The purpose of the following switch information is to define what data should be 
reported based on what type of switch is used. 
1. The momentary rocker switch may be used, where the default is the neutral position with no buttons pressed. The user 
can press the rocker into the increment button pressed position, and when pressure is released, it will return to the neutral 
position. The user may also press the rocker into the decrement button pressed position, and when pressure is released, 
it will return to the neutral position. Momentary rocker button usage is as follows: 
 - Neutral position = 0000 No Operator Control Request 
 - Increment Button Pressed = 0001 Increment Operator Control Request 
 - Decrement Button Pressed = 0010 Decrement Operator Control Request 
2. The momentary contact button pair may be used, where the default is the neutral position with no buttons pressed. The 
user can press the increment button, and when pressure is released, it will return to the neutral position. The user may 
press the decrement button, and when pressure is released, it will return to the neutral position. Momentary contact 
button (button pair) usage is as follows: 
 - No Button Pressed = 0000 No Operator Control Request 
 - Increment Button Pressed = 0001 Increment Operator Control Request 
 - Decrement Button Pressed = 0010 Decrement Operator Control Request 
Data Values and Descriptions: 
0000 No Operator Control Request 
0001 Increment Operator Control Request 
0010 Decrement Operator Control Request 
0011-1101 Reserved 
1110 Error Indicator 
1111 Not installed 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61453 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 435 -
SPN 3339 Side-shift Desired Blade Offset Operator Control 
This parameter indicates the side-shift blade control mode operator control state the user has set for the land leveling 
system. When an implement moves in a side-shift direction, it moves from side to side, usually along its longitudinal axis. 
The operator control value directly correlates to the current operator control state. Only one of the following states will be
active at a time. In the example below, the data values are defined for each switch type that may be used in an 
application. The purpose of the following switch information is to define what data should be reported based on what type 
of switch is used. 
1. A toggle button with two states can be used, in which the button is either in the manual or the auto position at all times.
 Toggle button usage is as follows: 
 Manual Position = 0010 Manual Operator Control Request 
 Auto Position = 0011 Automatic Operator Control Request 
2. The momentary rocker switch may be used, where the default is the no button pressed position. The user can press 
the rocker into the manual position, and when pressure is released, it will return to the no button pressed position. The 
user may also press the rocker into the auto position, and when pressure is released, it will return to the no button 
pressed position. Momentary rocker button usage is as follows: 
 No Button Pressed = 0000 No Operator Control Request 
 Manual Button Pressed = 0010 Manual Operator Control Request 
 Auto Button Pressed = 0011 Automatic Operator Control Request 
3. The momentary contact button pair may be used, where the default is no buttons being pressed. The user can press 
the manual button, and when pressure is released, it will return to the no button pressed position. The user may press 
the auto button, and when pressure is released, it will return to the no button pressed position. Momentary contact 
buttons (button pair) usage is as follows: 
 No Button Pressed = 0000 No Operator Control Request 
 Manual Button Pressed = 0010 Manual Operator Control Request 
 Auto Button Pressed = 0011 Automatic Operator Control Request 
4. The momentary contact single button may be used, where the default is no button being pressed. The user can press 
the button, which is the button pressed position, and when pressure is released, it will return to the no button pressed 
position. The controller receiving this command will keep track of what mode the blade is in, auto or manual. If the blade 
is in manual mode to begin with, one press of the button will change to mode to auto. If the button is pressed again, the 
blade will be put into manual mode. Momentary contact button (single button) usage is as follows: 
 No Button Pressed = 0000 No Operator Control Request 
 Button Pressed = 0001 Momentary Operator Control Request 
Data Values and Descriptions: 
0000 No Operator Control Request 
0001 Momentary Operator Control Request 
0010 Manual Operator Control Request 
0011 Automatic Operator Control Request 
0100 - 1101 Reserved 
1110 Error Indicator 
1111 Not Installed 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61453 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 436 -
SPN 3340 Engine Charge Air Cooler 1 Intake Pressure 
Pressure of air at intake to 1st or only charge air cooler, from multiple first stage turbochargers being cooled and feeding 
multiple second stage turbochargers. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 2 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 500 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64938 
SPN 3341 Engine Charge Air Cooler 2 Intake Pressure 
Pressure of air at intake to 2nd charge air cooler, from multiple first stage turbochargers being cooled and feeding multiple 
second stage turbochargers. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 2 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 500 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64938 
SPN 3342 Engine Coolant Pump Differential Pressure 
The differential pressure measured across the input and output of the engine coolant pump. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1.64 kPa/bit, -7 kPa offset 
Data Range: -7 to 403 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64938 
SPN 3343 Engine Centrifugal Oil Filter speed 
The speed of a rotating (centrifugal) engine oil filter. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 4 rpm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 257,020 rpm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64938 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 437 -
SPN 3344 Support Variable Rate TSC1 Message 
This parameter indicates which TSC1 transmission rates are supported by the engine ECU in addition to the required 
10ms transmission rate for temporary powertrain control purposes.
Bit Position Transmission Rate 
1 1000 ms transmission rate
2 750 ms transmission rate 
3 500 ms transmission rate 
4 250 ms transmission rate 
5 100 ms transmission rate 
6 50 ms transmission rate 
7 20 ms transmission rate 
8 Reserved for SAE assignment (set to one) 
Where 0 = Transmission Rate Supported by Engine and 1 = Transmission Rate Not supported by Engine 
Note: FF for this byte implies that the engine only supports standard temporary power train control (e.g. 10 ms) 
Data Length: 8 bits 
Resolution: 256 states/8 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 255 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65251 
SPN 3345 Support TSC1 Control Purpose Group 1 
This parameter indicates which TSC1 control purposes are supported in group 1 of 4. One bit is used to convey the 
support of each Control Purpose. A value of 0 equals supported and a value of 1 equals not supported. This bit logic is 
used to allow the default to FF to be backward compatible. 
This group of 4 parameters (SPNs 3345, 3346, 3347, and 3348) indicates which TSC1 Control Purposes are supported 
by the engine ECU in addition to the Temporary Powertrain Control Purpose (which is denoted as control purpose P32). 
All ones in the Group 1 through 4 parameters indicates the engine only supports Temporary Powertrain Control. 
Group 1 of 4 
Bit Position Control Purpose Value Control Purpose Description 
 1 P1 Accelerator Pedal/Operator Selection 
 2 P2 Cruise Control 
 3 P3 PTO Governor 
 4 P4 Road Speed Governor 
 5 P5 Engine protection 
 6 P6 Reserved for assignment by SAE 
 7 P7 Reserved for assignment by SAE 
 8 P8 Reserved for assignment by SAE 
Where 0 = Control Purpose is supported and 1 = Control Purpose is not supported 
Data Length: 8 bits 
Resolution: 256 states/8 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 255 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65251 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 438 -
SPN 3346 Support TSC1 Control Purpose Group 2 
This parameter indicates which TSC1 control purposes are supported in group 2 of 4. One bit is used to convey the 
support of each Control Purpose. A value of 0 equals supported and a value of 1 equals not supported. This bit logic is 
used to allow the default to FF to be backward compatible. 
This group of 4 parameters (SPNs 3345, 3346, 3347, and 3348) indicates which TSC1 Control Purposes are supported 
by the engine ECU in addition to the Temporary Powertrain Control Purpose (which is denoted as control purpose P32). 
All ones in the Group 1 through 4 parameters indicates the engine only supports Temporary Powertrain Control. 
Group 2 of 4 
Bit Position Control Purpose Value Control Purpose Description 
 1 P9 Reserved for assignment by SAE 
 2 P10 Reserved for assignment by SAE 
 3 P11 Reserved for assignment by SAE 
 4 P12 Reserved for assignment by SAE 
 5 P13 Reserved for assignment by SAE 
 6 P14 Reserved for assignment by SAE 
 7 P15 Reserved for assignment by SAE 
 8 P16 Reserved for assignment by SAE 
Where 0 = Control Purpose is supported and 1 = Control Purpose is not supported 
Data Length: 8 bits 
Resolution: 256 states/8 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 255 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65251 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 439 -
SPN 3347 Support TSC1 Control Purpose Group 3 
This parameter indicates which TSC1 control purposes are supported in group 3 of 4. One bit is used to convey the 
support of each Control Purpose. A value of 0 equals supported and a value of 1 equals not supported. This bit logic is 
used to allow the default to FF to be backward compatible. 
This group of 4 parameters (SPNs 3345, 3346, 3347, and 3348) indicates which TSC1 Control Purposes are supported 
by the engine ECU in addition to the Temporary Powertrain Control Purpose (which is denoted as control purpose P32). 
All ones in the Group 1 through 4 parameters indicates the engine only supports Temporary Powertrain Control. 
Group 3 of 4 
Bit Position Control Purpose Value Control Purpose Description 
 1 P17 Reserved for assignment by SAE 
 2 P18 Reserved for assignment by SAE 
 3 P19 Reserved for assignment by SAE 
 4 P20 Reserved for assignment by SAE 
 5 P21 Reserved for assignment by SAE 
 6 P22 Reserved for assignment by SAE 
 7 P23 Reserved for assignment by SAE 
 8 P24 Reserved for assignment by SAE 
Where 0 = Control Purpose is supported and 1 = Control Purpose is not supported 
Data Length: 8 bits 
Resolution: 256 states/8 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 255 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65251 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 440 -
SPN 3348 Support TSC1 Control Purpose Group 4 
This parameter indicates which TSC1 control purposes are supported in group 4 of 4. One bit is used to convey the 
support of each Control Purpose. A value of 0 equals supported and a value of 1 equals not supported. This bit logic is 
used to allow the default to FF to be backward compatible. 
This group of 4 parameters (SPNs 3345, 3346, 3347, and 3348) indicates which TSC1 Control Purposes are supported 
by the engine ECU in addition to the Temporary Powertrain Control Purpose (which is denoted as control purpose P32). 
All ones in the Group 1 through 4 parameters indicates the engine only supports Temporary Powertrain Control. 
Group 4 of 4 
Bit Position Control Purpose Value Control Purpose Description 
 1 P25 Reserved for assignment by SAE 
 2 P26 Reserved for assignment by SAE 
 3 P27 Reserved for assignment by SAE 
 4 P28 Reserved for assignment by SAE 
 5 P29 Reserved for assignment by SAE 
 6 P30 Reserved for assignment by SAE 
 7 P31 Reserved for assignment by SAE 
 8 See Note Not assignable, must always be set to 1.
Where 0 = Control Purpose is supported and 1 = Control Purpose is not supported 
NOTE: P32 is always supported and is Temporary Power Train Control (the original use of the TSC1 Command). 
The engine configuration will not indicate separate support of Temporary Power Train Control mode. 
Data Length: 8 bits 
Resolution: 256 states/8 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 255 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65251 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 441 -
SPN 3349 TSC1 Transmission Rate 
This parameter indicates the transmission rate at which the sending device will transmit the TSC1 message. The engine 
shall adjust its timeout for TSC1 messages accordingly. Variable TSC1 transmission rates shall only apply to messages 
sent to the engine.
A value of all ones is to be used in TSC1 messages directed to retarders because the TSC1 Transmission Rate 
parameter is not applicable for retarders. All TSC1 messages sent to the retarder shall use the standard 50 ms rate. 
Devices sending TSC1 messages to the engine should only invoke alternative transmission rates which the engine has 
indicated it supports in SPN 3344 – Support Variable Rate TSC1 Message. 
000 = 1000 ms transmission rate 
001 = 750 ms transmission rate 
010 = 500 ms transmission rate 
011 = 250 ms transmission rate 
100 = 100 ms transmission rate 
101 = 50 ms transmission rate 
110 = 20 ms transmission rate 
111 = Use standard TSC1 transmission rates of 10 ms to engine 
Note: Sending devices shall not send variable rate TSC1 messages to the engine for unsupported control purposes. 
Data Length: 3 bits 
Resolution: 8 states/3 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 7 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 0 
SPN 3350 TSC1 Control Purpose 
State signal which indicates which control mode the sending device is using to generate the TSC1 command. Note that 
the modes are not in prioritized order. Not all modes may be relevant for a given device. Some devices may not 
implement all functions. For typical priorities refer to Figures SPN512_A, SPN512_B for engine control and Figure 
SPN695_A. The TSC1 control purpose shall only apply to messages sent to the engine.
A value of all ones is to be used in TSC1 messages directed to retarders because the TSC1 Control Purpose parameter 
is not applicable for retarders. 
00000 = P1 = Accelerator Pedal/Operator Selection 
00001 = P2 = Cruise Control 
00010 = P3 = PTO Governor 
00011 = P4 = Road Speed Governor 
00100 = P5 = Engine Protection 
00101 - 11110 = P6-P31 = Reserved for SAE Assignment
11111 = P32 = Temporary Power Train Control (Original use of TSC1 Command)
Note: Sending devices shall not send variable rate TSC1 messages to the engine for unsupported control purposes. 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: 32 states/5 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 0 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 442 -
SPN 3353 Alternator 1 Status 
Alternator 1 operating status. 
00 Alternator 1 not charging 
01 Alternator 1 charging 
10 error 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65237 
SPN 3354 Alternator 2 Status 
Alternator 2 operating status. 
00 Alternator 2 not charging 
01 Alternator 2 charging 
10 error 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65237 
SPN 3355 Alternator 3 Status 
Alternator 3 operating status. 
00 Alternator 3 not charging 
01 Alternator 3 charging 
10 error 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65237 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 443 -
SPN 3356 Alternator 4 Status 
Alternator 4 operating status. 
00 Alternator 4 not charging 
01 Alternator 4 charging 
10 error 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65237 
SPN 3357 Actual Maximum Available Engine - Percent Torque 
This is the maximum amount of torque that the engine can immediately deliver as a percentage of the reference engine 
torque (SPN 544). The Actual Maximum Available Engine - Percent Torque shall take into consideration all engine torque 
derates (e.g. air fuel ratio control (AFC), noise control, etc.) that could potentially be active in the system. This parameter
differentiates itself from the engine percent torque points 1 through 5 of the engine configuration map because it takes 
into account all dynamic internal inputs such as AFC and that it is updated on a 50ms basis. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61443 
SPN 3358 Engine Exhaust Gas Recirculation 1 Intake Pressure 
EGR intake gage pressure is measured after the EGR cooler and before the EGR valve. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 2 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 500 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 27 
PGN reference: 64961 
SPN 3359 Transmission Oil Filter Restriction Switch 
This switch indicates whether the transmission oil filter is clogged. 
00 - No restriction 
01 - Restriction exists on oil filter 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64917 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 444 -
(R) SPN 3363 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 1 Heater 
Percentage of heating applied to the aftertreatment 1 diesel exhaust fluid tank heater. A value of 0% means no heating 
applied, a value of 100% means full heating applied. The diesel exhaust fluid tank heater warms the diesel exhaust fluid 
in the diesel exhaust fluid tank. See SPN 5137 for the command for this tank heater. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 1761 
PGN reference: 65110 
SPN 3365 Relative Blade Height 
The measured vertical distance from a fixed location on the machine blade to a ground-based reference (i.e. relative 
height). Examples of a ground based reference include a curb, a stringline or the ground itself. The measurement may 
be positive or negative based on the initial reference used. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 mm/bit, -3,200 mm offset 
Data Range: -3,200 to 3,225.5 mm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61460 
SPN 3366 Relative Blade Height and Blade Rotation Angle Measurement Latency 
The estimated measurement latency of the measurement. 
NOTE: This is only the sensor latency and does not include any additional latencies that might exist because of the CAN 
Bus or overall system implementation. 
For example, if the technique used is a sonic pulse/echo system, the round trip time divided by two will be a reasonably 
accurate estimate of the measurement latency if the processing time is small with respect to the propagation time. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.5 ms/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 125 ms Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61460 
SPN 3367 Relative Blade Height Figure of Merit 
Figure of merit for blade height measurement. 
Bits 
00 Relative Blade Height fully functional. Data is within sensor specification.
01 Relative Blade Height degraded. Data is suspect due to environmental conditions. 
10 Relative Blade Height failed.
11 Relative Blade Height not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61460 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 445 -
SPN 3368 Network Transceiver Status 1 
Indicates the status of the transceiver for the wireless communications network type 
0 = Off 
1 = On 
2 = Not Authorized to Operate on Network 
3-250 = Reserved for Future Assignment 
251-253 = Reserved 
254 = Error 
255 = Not Available 
Data Length: 8 bits 
Resolution: 256 states/8 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 255 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64937 
SPN 3369 Network Service Status 1 
Indicates the status of the Service for the wireless communications network type 
0 = Local Service 
1 = Roaming Service 
2 = Service not available 
3 = Not Authorized to Operate on Service 
4-250 = Reserved for Future Assignment 
251-253 = Reserved 
254 = Error 
255 = Not Available 
Data Length: 8 bits 
Resolution: 256 states/8 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 255 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64937 
SPN 3370 Network Antenna Status 1 
Indicates the status of the antenna for the wireless communications network type 
0 = Off 
1 = On 
2-250 = Reserved for Future Assignment 
251-253 = Reserved 
254 = Error 
255 = Not Available 
Data Length: 8 bits 
Resolution: 256 states/8 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 255 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64937 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 446 -
SPN 3371 Network Signal Strength 1 
Indicates the signal strength for the wireless communications network type. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64937 
SPN 3372 Wireless Communication Network Type 1 
Type of Wireless Communication Network 
0 = Cellular network #1 
1 = Cellular network #2 
2 = Wireless LAN #1 
3 = Wireless LAN #2 
4 = Satellite network 
5-250 = Reserved for Future Assignment 
251-253 = Reserved 
254 = Error 
255 = Not Available 
Data Length: 8 bits 
Resolution: 256 states/8 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 255 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64937 
SPN 3387 Engine Cylinder 1 Combustion Status 
This parameter is used to indicate state of combustion in engine cylinder #1 
00 No combustion 
01 Combustion exists 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61462 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 447 -
SPN 3388 Engine Cylinder 2 Combustion Status 
This parameter is used to indicate state of combustion in engine cylinder #2 
00 No combustion 
01 Combustion exists 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61462 
SPN 3389 Engine Cylinder 3 Combustion Status 
This parameter is used to indicate state of combustion in engine cylinder #3 
00 No combustion 
01 Combustion exists 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61462 
SPN 3390 Engine Cylinder 4 Combustion Status 
This parameter is used to indicate state of combustion in engine cylinder #4 
00 No combustion 
01 Combustion exists 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61462 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 448 -
SPN 3391 Engine Cylinder 5 Combustion Status 
This parameter is used to indicate state of combustion in engine cylinder #5 
00 No combustion 
01 Combustion exists 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61462 
SPN 3392 Engine Cylinder 6 Combustion Status 
This parameter is used to indicate state of combustion in engine cylinder #6 
00 No combustion 
01 Combustion exists 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61462 
SPN 3393 Engine Cylinder 7 Combustion Status 
This parameter is used to indicate state of combustion in engine cylinder #7 
00 No combustion 
01 Combustion exists 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61462 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 449 -
SPN 3394 Engine Cylinder 8 Combustion Status 
This parameter is used to indicate state of combustion in engine cylinder #8 
00 No combustion 
01 Combustion exists 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61462 
SPN 3395 Engine Cylinder 9 Combustion Status 
This parameter is used to indicate state of combustion in engine cylinder #9 
00 No combustion 
01 Combustion exists 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61462 
SPN 3396 Engine Cylinder 10 Combustion Status 
This parameter is used to indicate state of combustion in engine cylinder #10 
00 No combustion 
01 Combustion exists 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61462 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 450 -
SPN 3397 Engine Cylinder 11 Combustion Status 
This parameter is used to indicate state of combustion in engine cylinder #11 
00 No combustion 
01 Combustion exists 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61462 
SPN 3398 Engine Cylinder 12 Combustion Status 
This parameter is used to indicate state of combustion in engine cylinder #12 
00 No combustion 
01 Combustion exists 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61462 
SPN 3399 Engine Cylinder 13 Combustion Status 
This parameter is used to indicate state of combustion in engine cylinder #13 
00 No combustion 
01 Combustion exists 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61462 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 451 -
SPN 3400 Engine Cylinder 14 Combustion Status 
This parameter is used to indicate state of combustion in engine cylinder #14 
00 No combustion 
01 Combustion exists 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61462 
SPN 3401 Engine Cylinder 15 Combustion Status 
This parameter is used to indicate state of combustion in engine cylinder #15 
00 No combustion 
01 Combustion exists 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61462 
SPN 3402 Engine Cylinder 16 Combustion Status 
This parameter is used to indicate state of combustion in engine cylinder #16 
00 No combustion 
01 Combustion exists 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61462 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 452 -
SPN 3403 Engine Cylinder 17 Combustion Status 
This parameter is used to indicate state of combustion in engine cylinder #17 
00 No combustion 
01 Combustion exists 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61462 
SPN 3404 Engine Cylinder 18 Combustion Status 
This parameter is used to indicate state of combustion in engine cylinder #18 
00 No combustion 
01 Combustion exists 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61462 
SPN 3405 Engine Cylinder 19 Combustion Status 
This parameter is used to indicate state of combustion in engine cylinder #19 
00 No combustion 
01 Combustion exists 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61462 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 453 -
SPN 3406 Engine Cylinder 20 Combustion Status 
This parameter is used to indicate state of combustion in engine cylinder #20 
00 No combustion 
01 Combustion exists 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61462 
SPN 3407 Engine Cylinder 21 Combustion Status 
This parameter is used to indicate state of combustion in engine cylinder #21 
00 No combustion 
01 Combustion exists 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61462 
SPN 3408 Engine Cylinder 22 Combustion Status 
This parameter is used to indicate state of combustion in engine cylinder #22 
00 No combustion 
01 Combustion exists 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61462 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 454 -
SPN 3409 Engine Cylinder 23 Combustion Status 
This parameter is used to indicate state of combustion in engine cylinder #23 
00 No combustion 
01 Combustion exists 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61462 
SPN 3410 Engine Cylinder 24 Combustion Status 
This parameter is used to indicate state of combustion in engine cylinder #24 
00 No combustion 
01 Combustion exists 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61462 
SPN 3411 Status 2 of doors 
Composite indication of all bus door statuses. Enabled means the bus doors are able to be automatically opened or 
closed.
00 all bus doors are disabled 
01 at least 1 bus door enabled
10 error 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65102 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 455 -
SPN 3412 Lock Status of Door 1 
Lock status of bus door 1 
00 unlocked
01 locked 
10 error 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64933 
SPN 3413 Open Status of Door 1 
Open status of bus door 1 
00 door closed 
01 door opened 
10 error 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64933 
SPN 3414 Enable Status of Door 1 
Enable status of bus door 1. Enabled means the bus doors are able to be automatically opened or closed. 
00 door disabled 
01 door enabled 
10 error 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64933 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 456 -
SPN 3415 Lock Status of Door 2 
Lock status of bus door 2 
00 unlocked
01 locked 
10 error 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64933 
SPN 3416 Open Status of Door 2 
Open status of bus door 2 
00 door closed 
01 door opened 
10 error 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64933 
SPN 3417 Enable Status of Door 2 
Enable status of bus door 2. Enabled means the bus doors are able to be automatically opened or closed. 
00 door disabled 
01 door enabled 
10 error 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64933 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 457 -
SPN 3418 Lock Status of Door 3 
Lock status of bus door 3 
00 unlocked
01 locked 
10 error 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64933 
SPN 3419 Open Status of Door 3 
Open status of bus door 3 
00 door closed 
01 door opened 
10 error 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64933 
SPN 3420 Enable Status of Door 3 
Enable status of bus door 3. Enabled means the bus doors are able to be automatically opened or closed. 
00 door disabled 
01 door enabled 
10 error 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64933 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 458 -
SPN 3421 Lock Status of Door 4 
Lock status of bus door 4 
00 unlocked
01 locked 
10 error 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64933 
SPN 3422 Open Status of Door 4 
Open status of bus door 4 
00 door closed 
01 door opened 
10 error 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64933 
SPN 3423 Enable Status of Door 4 
Enable status of bus door 4. Enabled means the bus doors are able to be automatically opened or closed. 
00 door disabled 
01 door enabled 
10 error 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64933 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 459 -
SPN 3424 Lock Status of Door 5 
Lock status of bus door 5 
00 unlocked
01 locked 
10 error 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64933 
SPN 3425 Open Status of Door 5 
Open status of bus door 5 
00 door closed 
01 door opened 
10 error 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64933 
SPN 3426 Enable Status of Door 5 
Enable status of bus door 5. Enabled means the bus doors are able to be automatically opened or closed. 
00 door disabled 
01 door enabled 
10 error 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64933 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 460 -
SPN 3427 Lock Status of Door 6 
Lock status of bus door 6 
00 unlocked
01 locked 
10 error 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64933 
SPN 3428 Open Status of Door 6 
Open status of bus door 6 
00 door closed 
01 door opened 
10 error 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64933 
SPN 3429 Enable Status of Door 6 
Enable status of bus door 6. Enabled means the bus doors are able to be automatically opened or closed. 
00 door disabled 
01 door enabled 
10 error 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64933 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 461 -
SPN 3430 Lock Status of Door 7 
Lock status of bus door 7 
00 unlocked
01 locked 
10 error 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64933 
SPN 3431 Open Status of Door 7 
Open status of bus door 7 
00 door closed 
01 door opened 
10 error 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64933 
SPN 3432 Enable Status of Door 7 
Enable status of bus door 7. Enabled means the bus doors are able to be automatically opened or closed. 
00 door disabled 
01 door enabled 
10 error 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64933 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 462 -
SPN 3433 Lock Status of Door 8 
Lock status of bus door 8 
00 unlocked
01 locked 
10 error 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64933 
SPN 3434 Open Status of Door 8 
Open status of bus door 8 
00 door closed 
01 door opened 
10 error 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64933 
SPN 3435 Enable Status of Door 8 
Enable status of bus door 8. Enabled means the bus doors are able to be automatically opened or closed. 
00 door disabled 
01 door enabled 
10 error 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64933 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 463 -
SPN 3436 Lock Status of Door 9 
Lock status of bus door 9 
00 unlocked
01 locked 
10 error 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64933 
SPN 3437 Open Status of Door 9 
Open status of bus door 9 
00 door closed 
01 door opened 
10 error 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64933 
SPN 3438 Enable Status of Door 9 
Enable status of bus door 9. Enabled means the bus doors are able to be automatically opened or closed. 
00 door disabled 
01 door enabled 
10 error 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64933 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 464 -
SPN 3439 Lock Status of Door 10 
Lock status of bus door 10 
00 unlocked
01 locked 
10 error 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64933 
SPN 3440 Open Status of Door 10 
Open status of bus door 10 
00 door closed 
01 door opened 
10 error 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64933 
SPN 3441 Enable Status of Door 10 
Enable status of bus door 10. Enabled means the bus doors are able to be automatically opened or closed. 
00 door disabled 
01 door enabled 
10 error 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64933 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 465 -
SPN 3442 Network Transceiver Status 2 
Indicates the status of the transceiver for the wireless communications network type 
0 = Off 
1 = On 
2 = Not Authorized to Operate on Network 
3-250 = Reserved for Future Assignment 
251-253 = Reserved 
254 = Error 
255 = Not Available 
Data Length: 8 bits 
Resolution: 256 states/8 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 255 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64936 
SPN 3443 Network Service Status 2 
Indicates the status of the Service for the wireless communications network type 
0 = Local Service 
1 = Roaming Service 
2 = Service not available 
3 = Not Authorized to Operate on Service 
4-250 = Reserved for Future Assignment 
251-253 = Reserved 
254 = Error 
255 = Not Available 
Data Length: 8 bits 
Resolution: 256 states/8 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 255 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64936 
SPN 3444 Network Antenna Status 2 
Indicates the status of the antenna for the wireless communications network type 
0 = Off 
1 = On 
2-250 = Reserved for Future Assignment 
251-253 = Reserved 
254 = Error 
255 = Not Available 
Data Length: 8 bits 
Resolution: 256 states/8 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 255 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64936 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 466 -
SPN 3445 Network Signal Strength 2 
Indicates the signal strength for the wireless communications network type. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64936 
SPN 3446 Wireless Communication Network Type 2 
Type of Wireless Communication Network 
0 = Cellular network #1 
1 = Cellular network #2 
2 = Wireless LAN #1 
3 = Wireless LAN #2 
4 = Satellite network 
5-250 = Reserved for Future Assignment 
251-253 = Reserved 
254 = Error 
255 = Not Available 
Data Length: 8 bits 
Resolution: 256 states/8 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 255 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64936 
SPN 3447 Remote PTO Governor Preprogrammed Speed Control Switch #2 
Switch signal which indicates that the remote PTO governor toggle switch #2 is in the enabled (ON) position. If the toggle 
switch is enabled and other conditions are satisfied then the remote PTO governor control feature is activated and the 
PTO governor will control at the preprogrammed speed #2. 
00 - Off 
01 - On 
10 - Error 
11 - Not Available 
Note: This switch is different than the 1-8 Preprogrammed Set Speeds because this is a physical switch input, not a user 
programmable set speed (although the associated PTO set speed for this toggle switch is user defined). 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65264 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 467 -
SPN 3448 Auxiliary Input Ignore Switch 
Switch signal which overrides other switch input's ability to disable an engine's operating condition. 
00 - Off 
01 - On 
10 - Error 
11 - Not Available 
This switch input can be used to prevent the PTO from disengaging if another switch input's state changes. For example, 
if the PTO is normally disengaged when the clutch is depressed, then this switch would allow the user to use PTO while 
depressing the clutch. 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65264 
SPN 3452 Enable Switch – Transmission input shaft PTO 1 
Status of the operator’s switch or other input which indicates the desire for engaging the first PTO drive mounted on the 
transmission case. There may be more than one PTO drive mounted on the transmission case.
00 Enable switch off – PTO operation not desired 
01 Enable switch off – PTO operation desired 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64932 
SPN 3453 Enable Switch – Transmission input shaft PTO 2 
Status of the operator’s switch or other input which indicates the desire for engaging the second PTO drive mounted on 
the transmission case. If there is only one PTO drive on the transmission case, use SPN 3452 Enable Switch – 
Transmission input shaft PTO 1. 
00 Enable switch off – PTO operation not desired 
01 Enable switch off – PTO operation desired 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64932 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 468 -
SPN 3454 Enable Switch – Transmission output shaft PTO 
Status of the operator’s switch or other input which indicates the desire for engaging the PTO drive mounted on the 
transmission output shaft. 
00 Enable switch off – PTO operation not desired 
01 Enable switch off – PTO operation desired 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64932 
SPN 3455 Enable Switch – Transfer case output shaft PTO 
Status of the operator’s switch or other input which indicates the desire for engaging the PTO drive mounted on the output 
shaft of the transfer case. 
00 Enable switch off – PTO operation not desired 
01 Enable switch off – PTO operation desired 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64932 
SPN 3456 Engagement Consent – Transmission input shaft PTO 1 
Status of the transmission controller’s consent to engage the first or sole PTO drive mounted on the transmission case.
The controller in charge of the PTO drive should monitor this parameter and only engage the drive when consent is given. 
 If consent is removed, while the PTO drive is engaged, the drive controller should disengage the drive as soon as 
possible. Engaging the drive or continuing drive engagement when consent is removed may result in damage to the 
transmission and / or the PTO drive mechanism. 
00 Consent not given – PTO drive should not be engaged 
01 Consent given – PTO drive may be engaged 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64932 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 469 -
SPN 3457 Engagement Consent – Transmission input shaft PTO 2 
Status of the transmission controller’s consent to engage the second PTO drive mounted on the transmission case. The 
controller in charge of the PTO drive should monitor this parameter and only engage the drive when consent is given. If 
consent is removed while the PTO drive is engaged, the drive controller should disengage the drive as soon as possible.
Engaging the drive or continuing drive engagement when consent is removed may result in damage to the transmission 
and / or the PTO drive mechanism. If there is only one PTO drive on the transmission case, use SPN 3456 Engagement 
Consent – Transmission input shaft PTO 1. 
00 Consent not given – PTO drive should not be engaged 
01 Consent given – PTO drive may be engaged 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64932 
SPN 3458 Engagement Consent – Transmission output shaft PTO 
Status of the transmission controller’s consent to engage the PTO drive connected to the transmission output shaft. The 
controller in charge of the PTO drive should monitor this parameter and only engage the drive when consent is given. If 
consent is removed, while the PTO drive is engaged, the drive controller should disengage the drive as soon as possible. 
 Engaging the drive or continuing drive engagement when consent is removed may result in damage to the transmission 
and / or the PTO drive mechanism. 
00 Consent not given – PTO drive should not be engaged 
01 Consent given – PTO drive may be engaged 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64932 
SPN 3459 Engagement Consent – Transfer case output shaft PTO 
Status of the transmission controller’s consent to engage the PTO drive connected to the transfer case output shaft. The 
controller in charge of the PTO drive should monitor this parameter and only engage the drive when consent is given. If 
consent is removed, while the PTO drive is engaged, the drive controller should disengage the drive as soon as possible. 
 Engaging the drive or continuing drive engagement when consent is removed may result in damage to the transmission 
and / or the PTO drive mechanism. 
00 Consent not given – PTO drive should not be engaged 
01 Consent given – PTO drive may be engaged 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64932 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 470 -
SPN 3460 Engagement Status – Transmission input shaft PTO 1 
Reports if this specific PTO drive is engaged. This parameter should be broadcast only by the controller(s) receiving 
feedback about the specific drive.
For example, a pressure switch may be used to determine if a PTO-driven pump has been engaged. If the Body 
Controller (SA33) were monitoring this feedback signal, it should be the node broadcasting this parameter.
00 Drive not engaged 
01 Drive is engaged 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64932 
SPN 3461 Engagement Status – Transmission input shaft PTO 2 
Reports if this specific PTO drive is engaged. This parameter should be broadcast only by the controller(s) receiving 
feedback about the specific drive.
For example, a pressure switch may be used to determine if a PTO-driven pump has been engaged. If the Body 
Controller (SA33) were monitoring this feedback signal, it should be the node broadcasting this parameter. 
If there is only one PTO drive on the transmission case, SPN 3460 Engagement Status – Transmission input shaft PTO 1 
should be used.
00 Drive not engaged 
01 Drive is engaged 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64932 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 471 -
SPN 3462 Engagement Status – Transmission output shaft PTO 
Reports if this specific PTO drive is engaged. This parameter should be broadcast only by the controller(s) receiving 
feedback about the specific drive.
For example, a pressure switch may be used to determine if a PTO-driven pump has been engaged. If the Body 
Controller (SA33) were monitoring this feedback signal, it should be the node broadcasting this parameter.
00 Drive not engaged 
01 Drive is engaged 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64932 
SPN 3463 Engagement Status – Transfer case output shaft PTO 
Reports if this specific PTO drive is engaged. This parameter should be broadcast only by the controller(s) receiving 
feedback about the specific drive.
For example, a pressure switch may be used to determine if a PTO-driven pump has been engaged. If the Body 
Controller (SA33) were monitoring this feedback signal, it should be the node broadcasting this parameter.
00 Drive not engaged 
01 Drive is engaged 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64932 
SPN 3464 Engine Throttle Actuator 1 Control Command 
The control command to throttle actuator 1, normalized to percent, where 0% represents fully closed and 100% 
represents fully open. Typically, this throttle actuator is used to regulate air or air / fuel mix to the engine. Using the 
standard convention for determining the position. Left/front is #1 and right/rear is #2 (SPN 3465). 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.0025 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 160.6375 % Operational Range: 0 to 100% 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61466 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 472 -
SPN 3465 Engine Throttle Actuator 2 Control Command 
The control command to throttle actuator 2, normalized to percent, where 0% represents fully closed and 100% 
represents fully open. Typically, this throttle actuator is used to regulate air or air / fuel mix to the engine. Using the 
standard convention for determining the position. Left/front is #1 (SPN 3464) and right/rear is #2. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.0025 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 160.6375 % Operational Range: 0 to 100% 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61466 
SPN 3466 Engine Fuel Valve 2 Intake Absolute Pressure 
Absolute pressure of gas on intake side of the second fuel system control valve, using standard convention for 
determining position. Left/front is #1 (SPN 1390) and right/rear is #2. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6,425.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64930 
SPN 3467 Engine Gas 2 Mass Flow Rate 
Gas mass flow rate delivered to an engine through its second fuel control system, using standard convention for 
determining position. Left/front is #1 (SPN 1241) and right/rear is #2. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.05 kg/h per bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3212.75 kg/h Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64930 
SPN 3468 Engine Fuel Temperature 2 
Temperature 2 of fuel (or gas). See SPN 174 for fuel temperature 1. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 deg C/bit, -40 deg C offset 
Data Range: -40 to 210 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64930 
SPN 3469 Engine Fuel Valve 2 Outlet Absolute Pressure 
Absolute pressure of gas on outlet side of the second fuel system control valve. See SPN 2980 for the first or only fuel 
system control valve. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6,425.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64930 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 473 -
SPN 3470 Engine Turbocharger Compressor Bypass Actuator 1 Command 
The command to a compressor bypass actuator, normalized to percent, where 0% nominally represents fully closed and 
100% represents fully open. Typically, the turbocharger compressor bypass actuator is used to keep the engine out of 
surge by metering compressed air (charge). 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.0025 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 160.6375 % Operational Range: 0 to 100% 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64931 
SPN 3479 Aftertreatment 1 Fuel Pressure 1 Control 
Position that the controller is commanding the aftertreatment 1 fuel pressure control to maintain. 0% = fully closed, 100% 
= fully open. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.0025 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 160.6375 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64929 
SPN 3480 Aftertreatment 1 Fuel Pressure 1 
First fuel pressure measurement for the aftertreatment 1 system 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6,425.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64929 
SPN 3481 Aftertreatment 1 Fuel Rate 
Rate of fuel being delivered to aftertreatment 1 for regeneration 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.05 L/h per bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3,212.75 L/h Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64929 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 474 -
SPN 3482 Aftertreatment 1 Fuel Enable Actuator 
Indicates whether aftertreatment 1 fuel enable actuator is on or off 
00 not active 
01 active 
10 reserved for SAE assignment 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64929 
SPN 3483 Aftertreatment 1 Regeneration Status 
Indicates whether regeneration is active or inactive in aftertreatment 1.
00 not active 
01 active 
10 reserved for SAE assignment 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64929 
SPN 3484 Aftertreatment 1 Ignition 
Indicates whether aftertreatment 1 ignition circuit is energized by the ECM. 
00 not active 
01 active 
10 reserved for SAE assignment 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64929 
SPN 3485 Aftertreatment 1 Supply Air Pressure 
Pressure of the supply air for aftertreatment 1. Supply air is the air supplied from a pneumatic line for an air-assisted or 
pneumatic actuator. One example is an air assisted fuel injector (the supply air assists in the atomization of fuel). 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6,425.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64927 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 475 -
SPN 3486 Aftertreatment 1 Purge Air Pressure 
Pressure of the purge air supply for aftertreatment 1 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6,425.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64927 
SPN 3487 Aftertreatment 1 Air Pressure Control 
Position that the controller is commanding the aftertreatment 1 air pressure control to maintain. 0% = fully closed, 100% = 
fully open 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.0025 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 160.6375 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64927 
SPN 3488 Aftertreatment 1 Air Pressure Actuator Position 
Position of the aftertreatment 1 air pressure actuator as measured by a position feedback sensor. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64927 
SPN 3489 Aftertreatment 1 Air Enable Actuator 
Indicates whether aftertreatment 1 air enable actuator is on or off 
00 not active 
01 active 
10 reserved for SAE assignment 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64927 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 476 -
SPN 3490 Aftertreatment 1 Purge Air Actuator 
Indicates whether aftertreatment 1 purge air actuator is on or off 
00 not active 
01 active 
10 reserved for SAE assignment 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64927 
SPN 3491 Aftertreatment 1 Atomization Air Actuator 
Indicates whether aftertreatment 1 atomization air actuator is on or off 
00 not active 
01 active 
10 reserved for SAE assignment 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64927 
SPN 3492 Aftertreatment 1 Air System Relay 
Indicates whether aftertreatment 1 air system relay is on or off 
00 not active 
01 active 
10 reserved for SAE assignment 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64927 
SPN 3493 Aftertreatment 2 Fuel Pressure 1 Control 
Position that the controller is commanding the aftertreatment 2 fuel pressure control to maintain. 0% = fully closed, 100% 
= fully open. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.0025 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 160.6375 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64928 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 477 -
SPN 3494 Aftertreatment 2 Fuel Pressure 1 
Pressure of the fuel for Aftertreatment 2. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6,425.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64928 
SPN 3495 Aftertreatment 2 Fuel Rate 
Rate of fuel being delivered to aftertreatment 2 for regeneration 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.05 L/h per bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3,212.75 L/h Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64928 
SPN 3496 Aftertreatment 2 Fuel Enable Actuator 
Indicates whether aftertreatment 2 fuel enable actuator is on or off 
00 not active 
01 active 
10 reserved for SAE assignment 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64928 
SPN 3497 Aftertreatment 2 Regeneration Status 
Indicates whether regeneration is active or inactive in aftertreatment 2.
00 not active 
01 active 
10 reserved for SAE assignment 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64928 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 478 -
SPN 3498 Aftertreatment 2 Ignition 
Indicates whether aftertreatment 2 ignition circuit is energized by the ECM. 
00 not active 
01 active 
10 reserved for SAE assignment 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64928 
SPN 3499 Aftertreatment 2 Supply Air Pressure 
Pressure of the supply air for aftertreatment 2. Supply air is the air supplied from a pneumatic line for an air-assisted or 
pneumatic actuator. One example is an air assisted fuel injector (the supply air assists in the atomization of fuel). 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6,425.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64926 
SPN 3500 Aftertreatment 2 Purge Air Pressure 
Pressure of the purge air supply for aftertreatment 2 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6,425.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64926 
SPN 3501 Aftertreatment 2 Air Pressure Control 
Position that the controller is commanding the aftertreatment 2 air pressure control to maintain. 0% = fully closed, 100% = 
fully open 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.0025 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 160.6375 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64926 
SPN 3502 Aftertreatment 2 Air Pressure Actuator Position 
Position of the aftertreatment 2 air pressure actuator as measured by a position feedback sensor. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64926 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 479 -
SPN 3503 Aftertreatment 2 Air Enable Actuator 
Indicates whether aftertreatment 2 air enable actuator is on or off 
00 not active 
01 active 
10 reserved for SAE assignment 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64926 
SPN 3504 Aftertreatment 2 Purge Air Actuator 
Indicates whether aftertreatment 2 purge air actuator is on or off 
00 not active 
01 active 
10 reserved for SAE assignment 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64926 
SPN 3505 Aftertreatment 2 Atomization Air Actuator 
Indicates whether aftertreatment 2 atomization air actuator is on or off 
00 not active 
01 active 
10 reserved for SAE assignment 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64926 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 480 -
SPN 3506 Aftertreatment 2 Air System Relay 
Indicates whether aftertreatment 2 air system relay is on or off 
00 not active 
01 active 
10 reserved for SAE assignment 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64926 
SPN 3509 Sensor supply voltage 1 
Sensor ECU supply voltage 1 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.05 V/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3212.75 V Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64925 
SPN 3510 Sensor supply voltage 2 
Sensor ECU supply voltage 2 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.05 V/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3212.75 V Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64925 
SPN 3511 Sensor supply voltage 3 
Sensor ECU supply voltage 3 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.05 V/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3212.75 V Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64925 
SPN 3512 Sensor supply voltage 4 
Sensor ECU supply voltage 4 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.05 V/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3212.75 V Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64925 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 481 -
SPN 3513 Sensor supply voltage 5 
Sensor ECU supply voltage 5 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.05 V/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3212.75 V Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64924 
SPN 3514 Sensor supply voltage 6 
Sensor ECU supply voltage 6 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.05 V/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3212.75 V Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64924 
(R) SPN 3515 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Temperature 2 
Temperature of the diesel exhaust fluid at the device measuring diesel exhaust fluid quality. 
Note:
For DEF tank temperature use either SPN 3031 or 4427. SPN 3031 would generally be considered Aftertreatment 1 
Diesel Exhaust Fluid Temperature 1. 
For DEF dosing temperature use either SPN 4337 or 4390. 
If the DEF temperature measured at the quality sensor is the only temperature in either the tank or at the doser, it is 
recommended that SPN 3031 or SPN 4337 be used. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 deg C/bit, -40 deg C offset 
Data Range: -40 to 210 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 1761 
PGN reference: 64923 
(R) SPN 3516 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Concentration 
A measure of the concentration of urea in water. Zero percent means that the tank contains no urea. A 32.5% value 
indicates that the diesel exhaust fluid is of the proper concentration. The 32.5% value indicates that the concentration is 
highest quality. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.25 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 62.5 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 1761 
PGN reference: 64923 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 482 -
(R) SPN 3517 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank Level 2 
The measure of the diesel exhaust fluid level in the diesel exhaust fluid tank. 
See SPN 1761 for alternate SLOT. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 mm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6,425.5 mm (0 to 6.4255 m) Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 1761 
PGN reference: 65110 
(R) SPN 3518 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Conductivity 
A measure of the conductivity of the diesel exhaust fluid at the sensor. The conductivity is an indication of the diesel 
exhaust fluid's chemical make up. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 5 microSiemens/mm, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 1250 microSiemens/mm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 1761 
PGN reference: 64923 
(R) SPN 3519 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Temperature 2 Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI that applies to the most significant failure of the catalyst temperature sensor. 
 When there is no failure FMI 31 is sent. In the case of multiple failures the most severe is communicated. 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: Binary, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64923 
(R) SPN 3520 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Properties Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI that applies to the most significant failure of the catalyst reagent properties 
sensor. This may be used for indicating failures of the catalyst reagent concentration, catalyst reagent conductivity or 
catalyst reagent type. When there is no failure FMI 31 is sent. In the case of multiple failures the most severe is 
communicated.
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: Binary, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64923 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 483 -
(R) SPN 3521 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Property 
This parameter indicates the property of the fluid compound in the tank. A value of 0011 indicates uncontaminated Diesel 
Exhaust Fluid. 
0000 - Urea concentration too high 
0001 - Urea concentration too low 
0010 - Fluid is diesel 
0011 - Diesel exhaust fluid is proper mixture 
0101 to 1100 - Reserved for SAE assignment 
1101 - Not able to determine diesel exhaust fluid property (fluid type unknown) 
1110 - Error with diesel exhaust fluid property detection 
1111 - Not available 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 1761 
PGN reference: 64923 
SPN 3522 Aftertreatment 1 Total Fuel Used 
Total amount of fuel used by aftertreatment device 1 over the lifetime of the device. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 0.5 L/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 2,105,540,607.5 L Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64920 
SPN 3523 Aftertreatment 1 Total Regeneration Time 
Total amount of time that aftertreatment device 1 has been regenerating over the lifetime of the device. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 1 s/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 4,211,081,215 s Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64920 
SPN 3524 Aftertreatment 1 Total Disabled Time 
Total amount of time that aftertreatment 1 regeneration has been manually disabled. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 1 s/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 4,211,081,215 s Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64920 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 484 -
SPN 3525 Aftertreatment 1 Total Number of Active Regenerations 
Total number of active regenerations by aftertreatment device 1 over the lifetime of the device. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 1 count/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 4,294,967,295 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64920 
SPN 3526 Aftertreatment 2 Total Fuel Used 
Total amount of fuel used by aftertreatment device 2 over the lifetime of the device. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 0.5 L/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 2,105,540,607.5 L Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64921 
SPN 3527 Aftertreatment 2 Total Regeneration Time 
Total amount of time that aftertreatment device 2 has been regenerating over the lifetime of the device. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 1 s/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 4,211,081,215 s Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64921 
SPN 3528 Aftertreatment 2 Total Disabled Time 
Total amount of time that aftertreatment 2 regeneration has been manually disabled. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 1 s/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 4,211,081,215 s Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64921 
SPN 3529 Aftertreatment 2 Total Number of Active Regenerations 
Total number of active regenerations by aftertreatment device 2 over the lifetime of the device. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 1 count/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 4,294,967,295 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64921 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 485 -
(R) SPN 3532 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank Level Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI that applies to the most significant failure of the diesel exhaust fluid tank 
level sensor. This FMI is applicable to either the diesel exhaust fluid tank level 1 or diesel exhaust fluid tank level 2 
parameters. When there is no failure FMI 31 is sent. In the case of multiple failures the most severe is communicated. 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: Binary, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65110 
SPN 3533 Transmission Oil Level Switch 
This switch indicates whether transmission oil level is full or empty. 
00 - Empty 
01 - Full or not empty 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64917 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 486 -
SPN 3543 Engine Operating State 
This parameter is used to indicate the current state, or mode, of operation by the engine. This is a status parameter. 
Bit state 0000 = Engine Stopped 
Bit state 0001 = Pre-Start 
Bit state 0010 = Starting 
Bit state 0011 = Warm-Up 
Bit state 0100 = Running 
Bit state 0101 = Cool-down 
Bit state 0110 = Engine Stopping 
Bit state 0111 = Post-Run 
Bit states 1000-1101 = available for SAE assignment 
Bit state 1110 = <reserved> 
Bit state 1111 = not available 
STOPPED -
In the stopped state, the ECM is powered and the engine is not turning. The engine is ready to start. 
PRE-START -
In the PRE-START state, the engine is not running. Actions are taken by various subsystem controls to prepare the 
engine for cranking and starting. This may include any priming, prelubrication, preheating sequences, interlocks or other 
start permissives. These subsystems have their own state based control and communicate their status to the engine 
state control logic. 
STARTING -
During the STARTING state, actions are taken by various subsystem controls to attempt to start the engine. 
WARM-UP -
During the WARM-UP state, the engine operates at reduced speed and / or load to allow the engine to come up to 
operating temperature. 
RUNNING -
In the RUNNING state, the engine is turning and is prepared to output power. 
COOL-DOWN -
During the COOLDOWN state, the engine operates at reduced speed and / or load to allow the engine to cool off before 
the engine is stopped. 
STOPPING -
In the STOPPING state, actions are taken by various subsystem controls to attempt to stop the engine. 
POST-RUN -
During the POST-RUN state, the engine is not turning. Actions are taken by various subsystem controls to prevent 
engine damage and extend component life. The engine is not ready to start. 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64914 
SPN 3544 Time Remaining in Engine Operating State 
This parameter is used to indicate the time remaining in the current engine operating state, based on the state defined in 
the SPN "Engine Operating State" (SPN 3543). For the states in which time remaining is not applicable, use 65535 
($FFFF).
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1 s/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 64,255 s Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64914 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 487 -
SPN 3548 Engine Waste Oil Reservoir Level 
Level of crankcase blowby emulsion collected by a container. Normalized to percent, 0% represents completely empty 
and 100% represents completely full. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65130 
SPN 3549 Engine Oil-Filter Outlet Pressure 
Oil pressure (gauge) measured just downstream of oil filter.Used in conjunction with SPN1208 (pre-filter oil pressure) to 
determine oil filter health. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 4 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 1000 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65130 
SPN 3550 Engine Oil Priming Pump Switch 
Switch input for activating the engine oil priming pump. 
00 = Off 
01 = On 
10 = Error 
11 = Not available or not installed 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65130 
SPN 3551 Engine Oil Priming State 
Determination of whether or not the engine is (or has recently been) sufficiently lubricated for starting purposes. 
00 = Not sufficiently lubricated 
01 = Sufficiently lubricated 
10 = Unable to determine if sufficiently lubricated 
11 = Not available or not installed 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65130 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 488 -
SPN 3552 Engine Oil Pre-Heated State 
Indicates whether the engine oil pre-heated sufficiently for starting purposes. 
00 = Not sufficiently pre-heated 
01 = Sufficiently pre-heated 
10 = Unable to determine if engine oil is pre-heated sufficiently 
11 = Not available or not installed 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65130 
SPN 3553 Engine Coolant Pre-heated State 
Indicates whether the engine coolant is pre-heated sufficiently for starting purposes. 
00 = Not sufficiently pre-heated 
01 = Sufficiently pre-heated 
10 = Unable to determine engine coolant pre-heated sufficiently 
11 = Not available or not installed 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65130 
SPN 3554 Engine Ventilation Status 
Engine ventilation control states. 
000 = Sufficiently vented (all combustible gases have been evacuated from intake and exhaust systems) 
001 = Ventilation needed (combustible gases may be present in intake and exhaust systems) 
010 = Ventilation delay (delay without cranking between ventilation and start engine states) 
011 = Currently venting (engine cranks w/o gas or ignition to clear intake and exhaust systems with air) 
100 = Reserved for SAE assignment 
101 = Reserved for SAE assignment
110 = Not able to determine if sufficiently vented 
111 = Not available or not installe 
Data Length: 3 bits 
Resolution: 8 states/3 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 7 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65130 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 489 -
SPN 3557 Parking Brake Red Warning Signal 
This parameter commands the Parking Brake red optical warning signal. 
00 – off 
01 – on 
10 – Reserved
11 – Take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65274 
SPN 3558 AETC Data Collection Standard 
Indicates the standardized method by which torque data was obtained for the Advertised Engine Torque Curve (AETC).
For example, in North America, heavy duty diesel engine specifications are typically based on SAE J1995. Other 
applicable SAE, ISO, or DIN standards may be added as necessary in the future. 
0000 SAE J1995 
0001-1101 Not Defined 
1111 Not Available 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64912 
SPN 3559 Number of AETC data points 
Indicates the number of speed / torque data points contained in the Advertised Engine Torque Curve broadcast (AETC).
A minimum of 5 points is required, with a maximum of 15 points available as needed to accurately convey the curve. 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: 5 to 15 points 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 64912 
PGN reference: 64912 
SPN 3560 AETC Speed Value 
Engine speed value of the data points in PGN 64912 – Advertised Engine Torque Curve (AETC). 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.125 rpm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 8,031.875 rpm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 64912 
PGN reference: 64912 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 490 -
SPN 3561 AETC Torque value 
Engine torque value of the data points in PGN 64912 – Advertised Engine Torque Curve (AETC). 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1 Nm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 64,255 Nm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 64912 
PGN reference: 64912 
SPN 3562 Engine Intake Manifold #2 Pressure 
The gage pressure measurement of the air intake manifold for bank #2 or the second air intake manifold. If there are 
multiple air pressure sensors in the second intake stream, this is the last one in flow direction before entering the 
combustion chamber. See also SPNs 1127-1130 and SPN 102 for alternate range and resolution. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 2 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 500 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64976 
SPN 3563 Engine Intake Manifold #1 Absolute Pressure 
The absolute pressure measurement of the air intake manifold. If there are multiple air pressure sensors in the intake 
stream, this is the last one in flow direction before entering the combustion chamber. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 2 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 500 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64976 
SPN 3564 Lane Departure Warning Enable Command 
Command to enable/disable Lane Departure Indication 
00 Disable Lane Departure Warning 
01 Enable Lane Departure Warning 
10 Reserved 
11 Don´t care 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 43264 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 491 -
SPN 3565 Lane Departure Left 
Indicates that the middle of vehicle departs the lane on the left side. The parameter indicates that the vehicle is changing 
the lane to the left. 
00 Middle of the vehicle does not depart the lane to the left side 
01 Middle of the vehicle departs the lane to the left side 
10 Reserved 
11 Take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61447 
SPN 3566 Lane Departure Right 
Indicates that the middle of vehicle departs the lane on the right side. The parameter indicates that the vehicle is changing 
the lane to the right. 
00 Middle of the vehicle does not depart the lane to the right side 
01 Middle of the vehicle departs the lane to the right side 
10 Reserved 
11 Take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61447 
SPN 3589 Engine Oil Priming Pump Control 
This control is used to activate a pump that lubricates the engine, particularly prior to initial engine startup. 
00 = Off 
01 = On 
10 = Reserved 
11 = unavailable 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64914 
SPN 3597 ECU Power Output Supply Voltage #1 
The first power output from an ECM 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.05 V/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3212.75 V Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65165 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 492 -
SPN 3598 ECU Power Output Supply Voltage #2 
The second power output from an ECM. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.05 V/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3212.75 V Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65165 
SPN 3599 ECU Power Output Supply Voltage #3 
The third power output from an ECM. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.05 V/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3212.75 V Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65165 
SPN 3600 Steering Straight Ahead Position Reset 
Used to reset the straight ahead position for a steering sensor in the steering column or a steering controller's straight 
ahead position on any steerable axle. 
00 Take no action - Do not Reset 
01 Reset 
10 Reserved, take no action 
11 Not applicable 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 56832 
SPN 3601 Engine Fuel Shutoff Valve Leak Test Control 
Control setting for fuel shutoff valve proving system test. Typically, this type of system can only be used with a dual fuel 
shutoff system. The test consists of a small pump to pressurize the chamber between the dual fuel shutoffs when they 
are closed. After pressurizing, the test is passed if the pressure is above a certain threshold, indicating the fuel shutoffs 
are sealed completely shut without leaks. Otherwise, a low pressure indicates a leak is present past one or both of the 
fuel shutoffs.
00 = Off (reset / no test in process) 
01 = On (test in process / test complete) 
10 = Reserved 
11 = Don't care / take no action 
In addition to communicating desired action of the fuel shutoff valve proving system test and its driver status, this new 
SPN can be used to communicate whether the fuel shutoff valve proving system test failed, through the use of FMIs. 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64914 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 493 -
SPN 3602 Engine Oil Pre-heater Control 
Control setting for an electrically actuated oil pre-heating device. 
00 = Off 
01 = On 
10 = Reserved 
11 = Don't care / take no action 
In addition to communicating desired action of the electrically actuated oil pre-heater and its driver status, this new SPN 
can be used to communicate if any attempts to adequately pre-heat the oil are unsuccessful, through the use of FMIs. 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64914 
SPN 3603 Engine Electrical System Power Conservation Control 
Control setting for cutting power to various devices when the engine is not in use. Useful if it is desired to keep the 
engine in standby, with main control ECM still powered on and communictaing with outside world, but actuators and 
certain other ECMs can be de-powered. 
00 - Off (No Power conservation; all systems with supply power available) 
01 - On (power conservation active; certain systems have supply power witheld) 
10 - Reserved 
11 - Unavailable 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64914 
SPN 3604 Engine Block / Coolant Pre-heater Control 
Control setting for an electrically actuated engine block or coolant pre-heating device. 
00 - Off
01 - On 
10 - Reserved 
11 - Unavailable 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64914 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 494 -
SPN 3605 Engine Coolant Circulating Pump Control 
Control setting for an electrically actuated engine coolant circulating pump.
00 = Off 
01 = On 
10 = Reserved 
11 = Don't care / take no action 
.
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64914 
SPN 3606 Engine Controlled Shutdown Request 
A signal issued by the engine control system to a user or external system requesting for a controlled shutdown. This 
request is made when engine protection diagnostics determine a condition warrants a shutdown soon, but it is not severe 
enough to necessitate an immediate shutdown. This function gives notice such that the engine can be unloaded and 
cooled down before stopping. 
00 = Off (No Shutdown Requested) 
01 = On (Shutdown Requested) 
10 = Reserved 
11 = Don't care / take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64914 
SPN 3607 Engine Emergency (Immediate) Shutdown Indication 
A signal issued by the engine control system to a user or external system indicating that it is immediately shutting the 
engine down. This indication is made when engine protection diagnostics determine a condition necessitates an 
immediate shutdown. This function gives notice that this has occurred. 
00 = Off (No Shutdown Requested) 
01 = On (Shutdown Requested) 
10 = Reserved 
11 = Don't care / take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64914 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 495 -
SPN 3608 Engine Fuel Shutoff Vent Control 
Control setting for a fuel shutoff vent. Typically, for a dual fuel shutoff system, the vent line is located between them and 
is plumbed to vent outside to atmosphere. The vent control typically always actuates opposite to that of the fuel shutoff(s) 
control. Thus, when the fuel shutoff(s) are closed, the vent is open, thereby 'ventilating' any leftover or leaking gas from 
the fuel shutoff. When the fuel shutoff(s) are open, the vent is closed, thereby all gas passes through to the engine. 
00 = Closed (vent closed) 
01 = Open (vent open) 
10 = Reserved 
11 = Don't care / take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64914 
SPN 3609 Diesel Particulate Filter Intake Pressure 1 
This parameter indicates the diesel particulate filter intake gage pressure 1 (bank 1). 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6,425.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 64739 
PGN reference: 64908 
SPN 3610 Diesel Particulate Filter Outlet Pressure 1 
This parameter indicates the diesel particulate filter outlet gage pressure 1 (bank 1). 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6,425.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64908 
SPN 3611 Diesel Particulate Filter Intake Pressure 2 
This parameter indicates the diesel particulate filter intake gage pressure 2 (bank 2). 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6,425.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64907 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 496 -
SPN 3612 Diesel Particulate Filter Outlet Pressure 2 
This parameter indicates the diesel particulate filter outlet gage pressure 2 (bank 2). 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6,425.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64907 
SPN 3613 Text Display Instructions 
This parameter describes the status for the display how to show the information. 
0000 Clear display - The displayed information should be deleted or not displayed any more. 
0001 Hold display - The presently displayed information should be retained 
0010 Append at end of display - The transmitted information should be displayed at the end of the presently displayed 
information
0011 Overwrite display - The presently displayed information is to be overwritten with the transmitted information 
0100 Overwrite substring - A portion of the presently displayed information is to be overwritten with the transmitted 
information starting at display text index (SPN 3614) 
0101 Highlight substring 
0110 Blink substring 
0111-1110 Reserved 
1111 - Not applicable 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 43008 
SPN 3614 Text Display Index 
Used for overwriting consecutive bytes of a displayed string when byte 1 "Text Display Instructions" state is set for 
"overwrite substring" mode. When used, this byte declares where in the text string that the new text will start overwriting, 
this number is also known as the start byte. As usual for the transmitted text string, the Text Display Characters will be 
sent and then terminated by the null character, this will be the stop byte indicator to declare when to stop overwriting. 
EXAMPLE: To only modify 3 bytes (50, 51, 52) of an 87 byte character string. 
 Text Display Instructions - set to 0100b (Overwrite substring) 
 Text Display Index - set to 50d (starting byte of desired overwrite) 
 Text Display Characters - 3 characters sent, then the null ending byte 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 count/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 Operational Range: 0 to 200 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 43008 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 497 -
SPN 3615 Text Display Character 
From 1 up to 200 characters to be presented on a display. Up to 4 characters can be displayed without using Transport 
Protocol. The Display Text characters will follow the standard J1939-71 display method. Control characters can be used 
but not displayed. The characters are to be terminated with a 00h which is the "null" or "/0" character. 
EXAMPLE: Since this parameter starts in byte position 4, the first displayed byte would be in byte 4 of the Data Frame, 
the fourth displayed byte would be in byte 7 of the Data Frame, byte 8 would be the null character. 
Data Length: Variable - up to 200 bytes followed by an NULL delimiter 
Resolution: ASCII, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 255 per byte Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 43008 
SPN 3619 Number of J2012 DTCs 
The number J2012 DTCs being conveyed in PGN 64906. If the value of this parameter is zero, the device broadcasting 
PGN 64906 has no active or previously active J2012 DTCs. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 count/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64906 
SPN 3620 J2012 DTC 
Five character ASCII SAE J2012 DTC, sent most significant byte first. 
Data Length: 5 bytes 
Resolution: ASCII, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 255 per byte Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64906 
SPN 3621 J2012 DTC Status 
Indicates if the respective SAE J2012 DTC is active or previously active. 
0 - DTC is previously active 
1 - DTC is active 
Data Length: 1 bit 
Resolution: 2 states/1 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 1 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64906 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 498 -
SPN 3622 J2012 DTC Occurrence Count 
Number of occurrences of the respective SAE J2012 DTC being conveyed. 
If more than 126 occurrences happen the value shall be set to 126. 
If the occurrence count is not available to be sent then this value shall be set to 127. 
Data Length: 7 bits 
Resolution: 1 count/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 127 Operational Range: 0 to 126 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64906 
SPN 3623 Vehicle Roll 
This parameter indicates the roll in degrees from level. Facing the direction of travel a tip to the left would be indicated by
a negative number and a tip to the right would be indicated by a positive number. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1/128 deg/bit, -200 deg offset 
Data Range: -200 to 301.99 deg Operational Range: -90 to 90 degrees 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64905 
SPN 3624 Engine Intake Valve Actuation Oil Pressure for Cylinder #1 
The gage pressure of the oil in the hydraulic accumulator that powers the engine intake valve for cylinder #1.
This intake valve pressure is at the first cylinder in the engine, while SPN 2948 reflects the intake valve pressure of the 
entire engine system. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6,425.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64904 
SPN 3625 Engine Intake Valve Actuation Oil Pressure for Cylinder #2 
The gage pressure of the oil in the hydraulic accumulator that powers the engine intake valve for cylinder #2. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6,425.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64904 
SPN 3626 Engine Intake Valve Actuation Oil Pressure for Cylinder #3 
The gage pressure of the oil in the hydraulic accumulator that powers the engine intake valve for cylinder #3. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6,425.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64904 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 499 -
SPN 3627 Engine Intake Valve Actuation Oil Pressure for Cylinder #4 
The gage pressure of the oil in the hydraulic accumulator that powers the engine intake valve for cylinder #4. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6,425.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64904 
SPN 3628 Engine Intake Valve Actuation Oil Pressure for Cylinder #5 
The gage pressure of the oil in the hydraulic accumulator that powers the engine intake valve for cylinder #5. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6,425.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64903 
SPN 3629 Engine Intake Valve Actuation Oil Pressure for Cylinder #6 
The gage pressure of the oil in the hydraulic accumulator that powers the engine intake valve for cylinder #6. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6,425.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64903 
SPN 3630 Engine Intake Valve Actuation Oil Pressure for Cylinder #7 
The gage pressure of the oil in the hydraulic accumulator that powers the engine intake valve for cylinder #7. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6,425.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64903 
SPN 3631 Engine Intake Valve Actuation Oil Pressure for Cylinder #8 
The gage pressure of the oil in the hydraulic accumulator that powers the engine intake valve for cylinder #8. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6,425.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64903 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 500 -
SPN 3632 Engine Intake Valve Actuation Oil Pressure for Cylinder #9 
The gage pressure of the oil in the hydraulic accumulator that powers the engine intake valve for cylinder #9. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6,425.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64902 
SPN 3633 Engine Intake Valve Actuation Oil Pressure for Cylinder #10 
The gage pressure of the oil in the hydraulic accumulator that powers the engine intake valve for cylinder #10. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6,425.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64902 
SPN 3634 Engine Intake Valve Actuation Oil Pressure for Cylinder #11 
The gage pressure of the oil in the hydraulic accumulator that powers the engine intake valve for cylinder #11. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6,425.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64902 
SPN 3635 Engine Intake Valve Actuation Oil Pressure for Cylinder #12 
The gage pressure of the oil in the hydraulic accumulator that powers the engine intake valve for cylinder #12. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6,425.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64902 
SPN 3636 Engine Intake Valve Actuation Oil Pressure for Cylinder #13 
The gage pressure of the oil in the hydraulic accumulator that powers the engine intake valve for cylinder #13. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6,425.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64901 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 501 -
SPN 3637 Engine Intake Valve Actuation Oil Pressure for Cylinder #14 
The gage pressure of the oil in the hydraulic accumulator that powers the engine intake valve for cylinder #14. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6,425.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64901 
SPN 3638 Engine Intake Valve Actuation Oil Pressure for Cylinder #15 
The gage pressure of the oil in the hydraulic accumulator that powers the engine intake valve for cylinder #15. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6,425.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64901 
SPN 3639 Engine Intake Valve Actuation Oil Pressure for Cylinder #16 
The gage pressure of the oil in the hydraulic accumulator that powers the engine intake valve for cylinder #16. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6,425.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64901 
SPN 3640 Engine Intake Valve Actuation Oil Pressure for Cylinder #17 
The gage pressure of the oil in the hydraulic accumulator that powers the engine intake valve for cylinder #17. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6,425.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64900 
SPN 3641 Engine Intake Valve Actuation Oil Pressure for Cylinder #18 
The gage pressure of the oil in the hydraulic accumulator that powers the engine intake valve for cylinder #18. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6,425.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64900 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 502 -
SPN 3642 Engine Intake Valve Actuation Oil Pressure for Cylinder #19 
The gage pressure of the oil in the hydraulic accumulator that powers the engine intake valve for cylinder #19. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6,425.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64900 
SPN 3643 Engine Intake Valve Actuation Oil Pressure for Cylinder #20 
The gage pressure of the oil in the hydraulic accumulator that powers the engine intake valve for cylinder #20. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6,425.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64900 
SPN 3644 Engine Derate Request 
This parameter is a derate request made from the engine control system to an external system, where the engine is 
requesting an external device to reduce the load being applied. A zero value indicates that there is no derate being 
requested and 100% means full derate being requested. Any non-zero value represents a derate is being requested, at a 
percentage of full load. The engine control system identifies any problems and determines the amount of derate the 
situation calls for. This parameter can be useful to customer applications that prefer awareness and control of the engine 
derate.
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64914 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 503 -
SPN 3645 Transfer case status 
This parameter describes the feedback from the transfer case controller . Used by instrument clusters, tachographs, 
PTOs , etc. 
000 2 wheel high (normal or `'On Highway' Range) 
001 4 wheel high (normal or 'On Highway' Range 
010 neutral 
011 2 wheel low (or `'Off Highway' Range) 
100 4 wheel low (or `'Off Highway' Range) 
101 Transfer Case Shift in Progress or gear not confirmed 
110 error 
111 not available 
Data Length: 3 bits 
Resolution: 8 states/3 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 7 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64899 
SPN 3667 Engine Air Shutoff Status 
State signal which indicates the actual measured position of the Air Shutoff. 
00 - Air flow allowed to engine 
01 - Air flow restricted 
10 - Error 
11 - Not Available 
Note: This parameter, in conjunction with SPN 2813 - "Engine Air Shutoff Command Status", is provided to allow an 
external system to annunciate and/or alarm on either an accidental air shutoff (shutoff detected but not commanded), or a 
failed air shutoff (shutoff commanded but not detected). 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65252 
SPN 3668 Engine Intercooler Coolant Level 
Ratio of volume of liquid found in an engine intercooler cooling system to total engine intercooler cooling system volume. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64938 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 504 -
SPN 3669 Engine Rotation Direction 
Direction of engine rotation, as reported by the engine. Direction convention as viewed by an observer standing at the 
rear of the engine, viewing the flywheel. 
00 - CounterClockWise (CCW) 
01 - ClockWise (CW) 
10 - Reserved 
11 - Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65214 
SPN 3670 Maximum Crank Attempts per Start Attempt 
The number of cranking cycles that will be performed before ending the start attempt. This is intended to be used in 
conjunction with Crank Attempt Count on Present Start Attempt, in order to give a FMI 0 diagnostic on the latter. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 count/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64895 
SPN 3671 Crank Attempt Count on Present Start Attempt 
Reports the number of cranking cycles undergone during the present start attempt. 
Note: This is intended to be used in conjunction with Maximum Crank Attempts per Start Attempt, in order to give a FMI 0 
diagnostic on this parameter when the count exceeds the maximum. When the engine is not in a start attempt, this 
parameter can either hold the last value or return a Not Available (0xFF). 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 count/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65214 
SPN 3672 EGR1 Cooler Bypass Actuator Postion 
The parameter gives the % open of the EGR Cooler Bypass Actuator, where 0% = Fully Closed (no gas flowing through 
the bypass), and 100% = Fully Open. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 27 
PGN reference: 64897 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 505 -
SPN 3673 Engine Throttle Valve 2 Position 
The sensed position feedback of the valve, coming from a second electrical actuator for a second throttle plate, used to 
regulate the supply of a fluid, usually air or fuel//air mixture. 0% represents no supply and 100% is full supply. SPN 51 is 
used for the first throttle position feedback. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65266 
SPN 3675 Engine Turbocharger Compressor Bypass Actuator 1 Position 
Measures the position of the turbocharger compressor bypass actuator, where 0% represents bypass fully closed and 
100% represents bypass fully open. Typically, the compressor bypass is used to lower the compressor outlet pressure 
and/or intake manifold pressure during situations where too much boost is being generated by the turbocharger.
Typically, a compressor bypass will be plumbed from the compressor outlet or intake manifold back to the compressor 
intake, with the compressor bypass actuator and valve in place to regulate bypass flow. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64931 
SPN 3676 Engine Aftercooler Coolant Level 
Ratio of aftercooler coolant system volume of liquid to total cooling system volume. The engine aftercooler coolant level 
is for the low temperature (LT) cooling circuit used for the compressor outlet air or charge aftercooling.
SPN 111 "Coolant Level" is assumed to represent a high temperature (HT) cooling circuit used for cooling the engine and 
its various components. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64938 
(R) SPN 3683 Steering Wheel Angle 
The main operator`s steering wheel angle (on the steering column, not the actual wheel angle). The vehicle being steered 
to the left (counterclockwise) results in a positive steering wheel angle. This is the yaw angle of the steering wheel with 
the z-axis along the centerline of the steering column. This parameter is defined according to a Z-Up axis system and the 
sign of the value is in accordance to the right-hand rule, as specified in SAE J670. As specified in SAE J670, a Z-Up Axis 
System has positive X directed forward, positive Y to the left, and positive Z directed up. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1/1024 rad per bit, -31.374 rad offset 
Data Range: -31.374 to +31.374 rad Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61469 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 506 -
(R) SPN 3684 Steering Wheel Angle Range Counter 
The signal indicates the number of steering wheel angle range overflows if the operating range of steering wheel is 
greater than the measuring range of sensor element. Positive values indicate left turns (counterclockwise). If the steering 
wheel angle range is +/-180 degrees this signal is equivalent to a steering wheel turn counter. This parameter is defined 
according to a Z-Up axis system and the sign of the value is in accordance to the right-hand rule, as specified in SAE 
J670. As specified in SAE J670, a Z-Up Axis System has positive X directed forward, positive Y to the left, and positive Z 
directed up. 
Data Length: 6 bits 
Resolution: 1 range/bit, -32 ranges offset 
Data Range: -32 to 29 ranges Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61469 
SPN 3685 Steering Wheel Angle Range Counter Type 
The signal indicates whether the steering wheel angle sensor is capable of absolute measuring of the number of steering 
wheel angle ranges or not. Absolute measuring means that the steering wheel angle range counter signal indicates the 
real position of steering wheel at ignition on. Relative measuring means that the steering wheel angle range counter 
signal is zero at ignition on independent of the real position of steering wheel. 
00 - relative number of counts 
01 - absolute number of counts 
10 - not defined 
11 - signal not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61469 
SPN 3686 Steering Wheel Angle Range 
The signal indicates the range of the steering wheel angle the sensor element is capable to measure. The steering wheel 
angle signal ranges between the negative and the positive value of the steering wheel angle range. 
For example, a steering angle sensor transmits +13.6 rad to indicate a range of +/- 13.6 rad. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1/1024 rad per bit, -31.374 rad offset 
Data Range: -31.374 to +31.374 rad Operational Range: 0 to +31.374 rad 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61469 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 507 -
SPN 3687 Steering Angle Sensor Active Mode 
This signal indicates the operational mode of the steering angle sensor. 
00 – Programming mode active 
01 – Normal mode active 
10 – Reserved 
11 – Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61469 
SPN 3688 Steering Angle Sensor Calibrated 
This signal indicates the calibration status of the steering angle sensor. 
00 – SAS not calibrated 
01 – SAS calibrated 
10 – Reserved 
11 – Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61469 
SPN 3689 Message Counter 
The message counter is to verify the signal path from the demanding device to the steering controller. The support of this 
parameter is mandatory. 
Note: The initial value of the 4 bit message counter for the first message during a driving cycle is arbitrary. In every 
following message the counter is incremented by 1 (0 follows 15). 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 1 count/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61469 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 508 -
SPN 3690 Message Checksum 
The message checksum is used to verify the signal path from the demanding device to the steering controller. The 
support of this parameter is mandatory if PGN 61469 is supported as there is no means to indicate “not available”. 
The 4 bit checksum is the sum of the high nibble and the low nibble of the sum of the identifier, the first 7 data bytes and 
the 4 bit message counter. It is calculated as follows: 
Checksum = (Byte1 + Byte2 + Byte3 + Byte4 + Byte5 + Byte6 + Byte7 + message counter&0x0F + message ID low byte + 
message ID mid low byte + message ID mid high byte + message ID high byte) 
Checksum = ((Checksum >> 4) + Checksum) & 0x0F 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 1 count/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61469 
SPN 3691 Left Headlamp Dynamic Bending Light 
This parameter indicates whether the dynamic bending light of the left headlamp is working properly. 
000 Dynamic bending light deactivated. There is no problem but for some reasons (e.g. daylight present) the bending 
light is deactivated. 
001 Dynamic bending light is working properly. Normal operation mode. Bending light is working properly. 
010 Dynamic bending light fail safe position. Bending light is damaged, current position does not affect oncoming traffic. 
011 Dynamic bending light failure. Bending light does not work, current position may affect oncoming traffic. 
100 – 110 Reserved 
111 Not available 
Data Length: 3 bits 
Resolution: 8 states/3 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 7 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64894 
SPN 3692 Right Headlamp Dynamic Bending Light 
This parameter indicates whether the dynamic bending light of the left headlamp is working properly. 
000 Dynamic bending light deactivated. There is no problem but for some reasons (e.g. daylight present) the bending 
light is deactivated. 
001 Dynamic bending light is working properly. Normal operation mode. Bending light is working properly. 
010 Dynamic bending light fail safe position. Bending light is damaged, current position does not affect oncoming traffic. 
011 Dynamic bending light failure. Bending light does not work, current position may affect oncoming traffic. 
100 – 110 Reserved 
111 Not available 
Data Length: 3 bits 
Resolution: 8 states/3 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 7 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64894 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 509 -
SPN 3693 Left Headlamp Light Distribution 
This parameter indicates what kind of light distribution is set by the AFS system for the left headlamp. 
0000 Light distribution town - The basic light distribution for town light is generated with a symmetrical cut-off line (Class
V)
0001 Light distribution country - Country light is mostly similar to the actual SAE low beam pattern. (Class C) 
0010 Light distribution motorway - The task of motorway light is an improved overall viewing distance and an optimum of 
illumination of the second lane on roads with more than one lane and without oncoming traffic. (Class E) 
0011 Light distribution high beam - The high beam distribution of the module generates an illumination level that an 
additional high beam spot is not necessary. 
0100 Light distribution adverse weather - The adverse weather light improves the viewing situation for the driver on wet 
roads and reduces the amount of glare from reflections on wed reads for the oncoming traffic. (Class W)
0101 Light distribution fail safe position - Module is damaged, current light distribution does not affect oncoming traffic. 
0110 Light distribution failure - Module is damaged, current position may affect oncoming traffic. 
0111 Different light distributions not available - No AFS distributions available. Head lamp has only one distribution. 
1000 – 1110 Reserved 
1111 Not available 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64894 
SPN 3694 Right Headlamp Light Distribution 
This parameter indicates what kind of light distribution is set by the AFS system for the right headlamp. 
0000 Light distribution town - The basic light distribution for town light is generated with a symmetrical cut-off line (Class
V)
0001 Light distribution country - Country light is mostly similar to the actual SAE low beam pattern. (Class C) 
0010 Light distribution motorway - The task of motorway light is an improved overall viewing distance and an optimum of 
illumination of the second lane on roads with more than one lane and without oncoming traffic. (Class E) 
0011 Light distribution high beam - The high beam distribution of the module generates an illumination level that an 
additional high beam spot is not necessary. 
0100 Light distribution adverse weather - The adverse weather light improves the viewing situation for the driver on wet 
roads and reduces the amount of glare from reflections on wed reads for the oncoming traffic. (Class W)
0101 Light distribution fail safe position - Module is damaged, current light distribution does not affect oncoming traffic. 
0110 Light distribution failure - Module is damaged, current position may affect oncoming traffic. 
0111 Different light distributions not available - No AFS distributions available. Head lamp has only one distribution. 
1000 – 1110 Reserved 
1111 Not available 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64894 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 510 -
SPN 3695 Diesel Particulate Filter Regeneration Inhibit Switch 
Indicates the state of a switch available to the operator that inhibits diesel particulate filter regeneration. 
00 not active 
01 active 
10 error 
11 not available 
This SPN would be “not active” when diesel particulate filter regeneration is allowed to occur normally (diesel particulate 
filter regeneration is not inhibited). 
The engine controller shall inhibit regeneration when SPN 3695 is in the ON state. Regeneration shall be activated by 
SPN 3696 when it is in the ON state and SPN 3695 is in the OFF state. 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 57344 
SPN 3696 Diesel Particulate Filter Regeneration Force Switch 
Indicates the state of a switch available to the operator that forces diesel particulate filter regeneration. 
00 not active 
01 active 
10 error 
11 not available 
This SPN would be “not active” when diesel particulate filter regeneration is allowed to occur normally (diesel particulate 
filter regeneration is not being forced). 
The engine controller shall inhibit regeneration when SPN 3695 is in the ON state. Regeneration shall be activated by 
SPN 3696 when it is in the ON state and SPN 3695 is in the OFF state. 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 57344 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 511 -
SPN 3697 Diesel Particulate Filter Lamp Command 
Command to control the diesel particulate filter lamp. 
000 Off 
001 On – solid 
010 reserved for SAE assignment
011 reserved for SAE assignment 
100 On – fast blink (1 HZ) 
101 reserved for SAE assignment 
110 reserved for SAE assignment 
111 not available 
This SPN would be “off” when diesel particulate filter lamp is unlit. The "on - solid" should indicate that diesel particulate
filter active regeneration is needed at the lowest level of urgency and that operator intervention is required. The flashing 
state indicates a more severe condition requiring regeneration.
This SPN shall not be used to convey information regarding operator switch feedback from SPNs 3695 and 3696. 
The ISO 2575 Symbol F21 is recommended for use with this message. 
Data Length: 3 bits 
Resolution: 8 states/3 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 7 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 3697 
PGN reference: 64892 
SPN 3698 Exhaust System High Temperature Lamp Command 
Command to control the exhaust system high temperature lamp. This lamp indicates that the exhaust system 
temperature is high. 
000 Off 
001 On – solid
010 reserved for SAE assignment
011 reserved for SAE assignment 
100 reserved for SAE assignment 
101 reserved for SAE assignment 
110 reserved for SAE assignment 
111 not available 
This SPN would be “off” when the lamp is unlit. The "on - solid" status indicates that the exhaust gas temperature is high. 
This SPN shall not be used to convey information regarding operator switch feedback from SPNs 3695 and 3696. 
The ISO 2575 Symbol "to be assigned" is recommended for use with this message. This symbol is the ISO exhaust gas 
symbol with the temperature symbol added to it. 
Data Length: 3 bits 
Resolution: 8 states/3 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 7 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 3697 
PGN reference: 64892 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 512 -
SPN 3699 Diesel Particulate Filter Passive Regeneration Status 
Indicates the state of diesel particulate filter passive regeneration. 
00 not active 
01 active 
10 reserved for SAE assignment 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64892 
SPN 3700 Diesel Particulate Filter Active Regeneration Status 
Indicates the state of diesel particulate filter active regeneration. 
00 not active 
01 active 
10 regeneration needed - automatically initiated active regeneration imminent 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 3697 
PGN reference: 64892 
SPN 3701 Diesel Particulate Filter Status 
Indicates the state of the diesel particulate filter regeneration need and urgency. 
000 Regeneration not needed 
001 Regeneration needed - lowest level 
010 Regeneration needed - moderate level 
011 Regeneration needed - highest level 
100 reserved for SAE assignment 
101 reserved for SAE assignment 
110 reserved for SAE assignment 
111 not available 
Data Length: 3 bits 
Resolution: 8 states/3 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 7 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 3697 
PGN reference: 64892 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 513 -
(R) SPN 3702 Diesel Particulate Filter Active Regeneration Inhibited Status 
Indicates the state of diesel particulate filter active regeneration inhibition. 
00 not inhibited 
01 inhibited 
10 reserved for SAE assignment 
11 not available 
This SPN indicates the reason for the diesel particulate filter regeneration not being initiated or being exited prior to 
completion. When this state becomes active, the system will not initiate an active regeneration or will exit an active 
regeneration. If the reason for inhibiting is not covered by SPNs 3703 thru 3717 or 5629, a request for a status parameter 
should be submitted to the SAE Truck and Bus J1939 Request Processing Group to have the reason added. 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64892 
SPN 3703 Diesel Particulate Filter Active Regeneration Inhibited Due to Inhibit Switch 
Indicates the state of diesel particulate filter active regeneration inhibition due to the Diesel Particulate Filter Regeneration
Inhibit Switch. 
00 not inhibited 
01 inhibited 
10 reserved for SAE assignment 
11 not available 
This SPN indicates the reason for the diesel particulate filter regeneration not being initiated or being exited prior to 
completion. When this state becomes active the system will not initiate an active regeneration or will exit an active 
regeneration. The state provides information that may be provided to the driver/service technician as to why the 
regeneration did not initiate or was exited. 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 3697 
PGN reference: 64892 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 514 -
SPN 3704 Diesel Particulate Filter Active Regeneration Inhibited Due to Clutch Disengaged 
Indicates the state of diesel particulate filter active regeneration inhibition due to the clutch being disengaged. 
00 not inhibited 
01 inhibited 
10 reserved for SAE assignment 
11 not available 
This SPN indicates the reason for the diesel particulate filter regeneration not being initiated or being exited prior to 
completion. When this state becomes active the system will not initiate an active regeneration or will exit an active 
regeneration. The state provides information that may be provided to the driver/service technician as to why the 
regeneration did not initiate or was exited. 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64892 
SPN 3705 Diesel Particulate Filter Active Regeneration Inhibited Due to Service Brake Active 
Indicates the state of diesel particulate filter active regeneration inhibition due to the service brake being active. 
00 not inhibited 
01 inhibited 
10 reserved for SAE assignment 
11 not available 
This SPN indicates the reason for the diesel particulate filter regeneration not being initiated or being exited prior to 
completion. When this state becomes active the system will not initiate an active regeneration or will exit an active 
regeneration. The state provides information that may be provided to the driver/service technician as to why the 
regeneration did not initiate or was exited. 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64892 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 515 -
SPN 3706 Diesel Particulate Filter Active Regeneration Inhibited Due to PTO Active 
Indicates the state of diesel particulate filter active regeneration inhibition due to the PTO being active. 
00 not inhibited 
01 inhibited 
10 reserved for SAE assignment 
11 not available 
This SPN indicates the reason for the diesel particulate filter regeneration not being initiated or being exited prior to 
completion. When this state becomes active the system will not initiate an active regeneration or will exit an active 
regeneration. The state provides information that may be provided to the driver/service technician as to why the 
regeneration did not initiate or was exited. 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64892 
SPN 3707 Diesel Particulate Filter Active Regeneration Inhibited Due to Accelerator Pedal Off Idle 
Indicates the state of diesel particulate filter active regeneration inhibition due to the accelerator pedal being off idle. 
00 not inhibited 
01 inhibited 
10 reserved for SAE assignment 
11 not available 
This SPN indicates the reason for the diesel particulate filter regeneration not being initiated or being exited prior to 
completion. When this state becomes active the system will not initiate an active regeneration or will exit an active 
regeneration. The state provides information that may be provided to the driver/service technician as to why the 
regeneration did not initiate or was exited. 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64892 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 516 -
SPN 3708 Diesel Particulate Filter Active Regeneration Inhibited Due to Out of Neutral 
Indicates the state of diesel particulate filter active regeneration inhibition due to the transmission being out of neutral. 
00 not inhibited 
01 inhibited 
10 reserved for SAE assignment 
11 not available 
This SPN indicates the reason for the diesel particulate filter regeneration not being initiated or being exited prior to 
completion. When this state becomes active the system will not initiate an active regeneration or will exit an active 
regeneration. The state provides information that may be provided to the driver/service technician as to why the 
regeneration did not initiate or was exited. 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64892 
SPN 3709 Diesel Particulate Filter Active Regeneration Inhibited Due to Vehicle Speed Above Allowed 
Speed
Indicates the state of diesel particulate filter active regeneration inhibition due to the vehicle speed being above an 
allowed limit. 
00 not inhibited 
01 inhibited 
10 reserved for SAE assignment 
11 not available 
This SPN indicates the reason for the diesel particulate filter regeneration not being initiated or being exited prior to 
completion. When this state becomes active the system will not initiate an active regeneration or will exit an active 
regeneration. The state provides information that may be provided to the driver/service technician as to why the 
regeneration did not initiate or was exited. 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64892 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 517 -
SPN 3710 Diesel Particulate Filter Active Regeneration Inhibited Due to Parking Brake Not Set 
Indicates the state of diesel particulate filter active regeneration inhibition due to the parking brake being not set. 
00 not inhibited 
01 inhibited 
10 reserved for SAE assignment 
11 not available 
This SPN indicates the reason for the diesel particulate filter regeneration not being initiated or being exited prior to 
completion. When this state becomes active the system will not initiate an active regeneration or will exit an active 
regeneration. The state provides information that may be provided to the driver/service technician as to why the 
regeneration did not initiate or was exited. 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64892 
SPN 3711 Diesel Particulate Filter Active Regeneration Inhibited Due to Low Exhaust Gas Temperature 
Indicates the state of diesel particulate filter active regeneration inhibition due to the exhaust gas temperature being too 
low. This implies that the diesel particulate filter and/or oxidation catalyst are likewise too cold for active regeneration. 
00 not inhibited 
01 inhibited 
10 reserved for SAE assignment 
11 not available 
This SPN indicates the reason for the diesel particulate filter regeneration not being initiated or being exited prior to 
completion. When this state becomes active the system will not initiate an active regeneration or will exit an active 
regeneration. The state provides information that may be provided to the driver/service technician as to why the 
regeneration did not initiate or was exited. 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64892 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 518 -
SPN 3712 Diesel Particulate Filter Active Regeneration Inhibited Due to System Fault Active 
Indicates the state of diesel particulate filter active regeneration inhibition due to a system fault being active. 
00 not inhibited 
01 inhibited 
10 reserved for SAE assignment 
11 not available 
This SPN indicates the reason for the diesel particulate filter regeneration not being initiated or being exited prior to 
completion. When this state becomes active the system will not initiate an active regeneration or will exit an active 
regeneration. The state provides information that may be provided to the driver/service technician as to why the 
regeneration did not initiate or was exited. 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64892 
SPN 3713 Diesel Particulate Filter Active Regeneration Inhibited Due to System Timeout 
Indicates the state of diesel particulate filter active regeneration inhibition due to a system timeout. 
00 not inhibited 
01 inhibited 
10 reserved for SAE assignment 
11 not available 
This SPN indicates the reason for the diesel particulate filter regeneration not being initiated or being exited prior to 
completion. When this state becomes active the system will not initiate an active regeneration or will exit an active 
regeneration. The state provides information that may be provided to the driver/service technician as to why the 
regeneration did not initiate or was exited. 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64892 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 519 -
SPN 3714 Diesel Particulate Filter Active Regeneration Inhibited Due to Temporary System Lockout 
Indicates the state of diesel particulate filter active regeneration inhibition due to a temporary system lockout. 
00 not inhibited 
01 inhibited 
10 reserved for SAE assignment 
11 not available 
This SPN indicates the reason for the diesel particulate filter regeneration not being initiated or being exited prior to 
completion. When this state becomes active the system will not initiate an active regeneration or will exit an active 
regeneration. The state provides information that may be provided to the driver/service technician as to why the 
regeneration did not initiate or was exited. 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64892 
SPN 3715 Diesel Particulate Filter Active Regeneration Inhibited Due to Permanent System Lockout 
Indicates the state of diesel particulate filter active regeneration inhibition due to a permanent system lockout. 
00 not inhibited 
01 inhibited 
10 reserved for SAE assignment 
11 not available 
This SPN indicates the reason for the diesel particulate filter regeneration not being initiated or being exited prior to 
completion. When this state becomes active the system will not initiate an active regeneration or will exit an active 
regeneration. The state provides information that may be provided to the driver/service technician as to why the 
regeneration did not initiate or was exited. 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64892 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 520 -
SPN 3716 Diesel Particulate Filter Active Regeneration Inhibited Due to Engine Not Warmed Up 
Indicates the state of diesel particulate filter active regeneration inhibition due to the engine not being warmed up. 
00 not inhibited 
01 inhibited 
10 reserved for SAE assignment 
11 not available 
This SPN indicates the reason for the diesel particulate filter regeneration not being initiated or being exited prior to 
completion. When this state becomes active the system will not initiate an active regeneration or will exit an active 
regeneration. The state provides information that may be provided to the driver/service technician as to why the 
regeneration did not initiate or was exited. 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64892 
SPN 3717 Diesel Particulate Filter Active Regeneration Inhibited Due to Vehicle Speed Below Allowed 
Speed
Indicates the state of diesel particulate filter active regeneration inhibition due to vehicle speed being less than the 
allowed vehicle speed. 
00 not inhibited 
01 inhibited 
10 reserved for SAE assignment 
11 not available 
This SPN indicates the reason for the diesel particulate filter regeneration not being initiated or being exited prior to 
completion. When this state becomes active the system will not initiate an active regeneration or will exit an active 
regeneration. The state provides information that may be provided to the driver/service technician as to why the 
regeneration did not initiate or was exited. 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64892 
SPN 3718 Diesel Particulate Filter Automatic Active Regeneration Initiation Configuration 
Indicates the configuration of diesel particulate filter active regeneration automatic initiation. 
00 not enabled 
01 enabled 
10 reserved for SAE assignment 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64892 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 521 -
SPN 3719 Diesel Particulate Filter 1 Soot Load Percent 
Indicates the soot load percent of diesel particulate filter 1. 100% is the level at which active diesel particulate filter 
regeneration should be triggered. 
100% level is the active regeneration trigger level (and if conditions are not favorable for regeneration, soot loading can 
continue beyond 100%). During normal operation and regeneration a value 0% will indicate a fully regenerated diesel 
particulate filter. Values of 25%, 50% and 75% will indicate the general level of soot prior to the 100% level where an 
active regeneration is needed. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64891 
SPN 3720 Diesel Particulate Filter 1 Ash Load Percent 
Indicates the ash load percent of diesel particulate filter 1. 100% is the level at which diesel particulate filter ash service
should be performed. 
100% level is the target ash service interval (and if ash service is not immediately performed, ash loading can continue 
beyond 100%). 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64891 
SPN 3721 Diesel Particulate Filter 1 Time Since Last Active Regeneration 
Indicates the time since the last active regeneration event of diesel particulate filter 1. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 1 s/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 4,211,081,215 s Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64891 
SPN 3722 Diesel Particulate Filter 2 Soot Load Percent 
Indicates the soot load percent of diesel particulate filter 2. 100% is the level at which active diesel particulate filter 
regeneration should be triggered. 
100% level is the active regeneration trigger level (and if conditions are not favorable for regeneration, soot loading can 
continue beyond 100%). During normal operation and regeneration a value 0% will indicate a fully regenerated diesel 
particulate filter. Values of 25%, 50% and 75% will indicate the general level of soot prior to the 100% level where an 
active regeneration is needed. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64890 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 522 -
SPN 3723 Diesel Particulate Filter 2 Ash Load Percent 
Indicates the ash load percent of diesel particulate filter 2. 100% is the level at which diesel particulate filter ash service
should be performed. 
100% level is the target ash service interval (and if ash service is not immediately performed, ash loading can continue 
beyond 100%). 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64890 
SPN 3724 Diesel Particulate Filter 2 Time Since Last Active Regeneration 
Indicates the time since the last active regeneration event of diesel particulate filter 2. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 1 s/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 4,211,081,215 s Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64890 
SPN 3725 Aftertreatment 1 Total Passive Regeneration Time 
Total amount of time that aftertreatment device 1 has been in passive regeneration over the lifetime of the device. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 1 s/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 4,211,081,215 s Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64920 
SPN 3726 Aftertreatment 1 Total Number of Passive Regenerations 
Total number of passive regenerations by aftertreatment device 1 over the lifetime of the device. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 1 count/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 4,294,967,295 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64920 
SPN 3727 Aftertreatment 1 Total Number of Active Regeneration Inhibit Requests 
Total number of aftertreatment device 1 active regeneration inhibit requests by the operator over the lifetime of the device. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 1 count/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 4,294,967,295 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64920 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 523 -
SPN 3728 Aftertreatment 1 Total Number of Active Regeneration Manual Requests 
Total number of aftertreatment device 1 active regeneration manual requests by the operator over the lifetime of the 
device.
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 1 count/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 4,294,967,295 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64920 
SPN 3729 Aftertreatment 2 Total Passive Regeneration Time 
Total amount of time that Aftertreatment device 2 has been in passive regeneration over the lifetime of the device. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 1 s/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 4,211,081,215 s Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64921 
SPN 3730 Aftertreatment 2 Total Number of Passive Regenerations 
Total number of passive regenerations by Aftertreatment device 2 over the lifetime of the device. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 1 count/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 4,294,967,295 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64921 
SPN 3731 Aftertreatment 2 Total Number of Active Regeneration Inhibit Requests 
Total number of Aftertreatment device 2 active regeneration inhibit requests by the operator over the lifetime of the 
device.
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 1 count/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 4,294,967,295 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64921 
SPN 3732 Aftertreatment 2 Total Number of Active Regeneration Manual Requests 
Total number of Aftertreatment device 2 active regeneration manual requests by the operator over the lifetime of the 
device.
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 1 count/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 4,294,967,295 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64921 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 524 -
SPN 3733 Aftertreatment 1 Trip Fuel Used 
Total amount of fuel used by aftertreatment device 1 during the current trip period. 
NOTE: This SPN needs to be reset by the reset PGN 56832. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 0.5 L/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 2,105,540,607.5 L Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64889 
SPN 3734 Aftertreatment 1 Trip Active Regeneration Time 
Total amount of time that aftertreatment device 1 has been in active regeneration during the current trip period. 
NOTE: This SPN needs to be reset by the reset PGN 56832. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 1 s/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 4,211,081,215 s Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64889 
SPN 3735 Aftertreatment 1 Trip Disabled Time 
Total amount of time that aftertreatment 1 regeneration has been manually disabled during the current trip period. 
NOTE: This SPN needs to be reset by the reset PGN 56832. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 1 s/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 4,211,081,215 s Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64889 
SPN 3736 Aftertreatment 1 Trip Number of Active Regenerations 
Total number of active regenerations by Aftertreatment device 1 during the current trip period. 
NOTE: This SPN needs to be reset by the reset PGN 56832. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 1 count/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 4,294,967,295 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64889 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 525 -
SPN 3737 Aftertreatment 1 Trip Passive Regeneration Time 
Total amount of time that aftertreatment device 1 has been in passive regeneration during the current trip period. 
NOTE: This SPN needs to be reset by the reset PGN 56832. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 1 s/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 4,211,081,215 s Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64889 
SPN 3738 Aftertreatment 1 Trip Number of Passive Regenerations 
Total number of passive regenerations by Aftertreatment device 1 during the current trip period. 
NOTE: This SPN needs to be reset by the reset PGN 56832. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 1 count/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 4,294,967,295 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64889 
SPN 3739 Aftertreatment 1 Trip Number of Active Regeneration Inhibit Requests 
Total number of aftertreatment device 1 active regeneration inhibit requests by the operator during the current trip period. 
NOTE: This SPN needs to be reset by the reset PGN 56832. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 1 count/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 4,294,967,295 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64889 
SPN 3740 Aftertreatment 1 Trip Number of Active Regeneration Manual Requests 
Total number of Aftertreatment device 1 active regeneration manual requests by the operator during the current trip 
period.
NOTE: This SPN needs to be reset by the reset PGN 56832. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 1 count/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 4,294,967,295 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64889 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 526 -
SPN 3741 Aftertreatment 2 Trip Fuel Used 
Total amount of fuel used by aftertreatment device 2 during the current trip period. 
NOTE: This SPN needs to be reset by the reset PGN 56832. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 0.5 L/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 2,105,540,607.5 L Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64888 
SPN 3742 Aftertreatment 2 Trip Active Regeneration Time 
Total amount of time that aftertreatment device 2 has been in active regeneration during the current trip period. 
NOTE: This SPN needs to be reset by the reset PGN 56832. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 1 s/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 4,211,081,215 s Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64888 
SPN 3743 Aftertreatment 2 Trip Disabled Time 
Total amount of time that aftertreatment 2 regeneration has been manually disabled during the current trip period. 
NOTE: This SPN needs to be reset by the reset PGN 56832. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 1 s/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 4,211,081,215 s Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64888 
SPN 3744 Aftertreatment 2 Trip Number of Active Regenerations 
Total number of active regenerations by aftertreatment device 2 during the current trip period. 
NOTE: This SPN needs to be reset by the reset PGN 56832. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 1 count/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 4,294,967,295 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64888 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 527 -
SPN 3745 Aftertreatment 2 Trip Passive Regeneration Time 
Total amount of time that aftertreatment device 2 has been in passive regeneration during the current trip period. 
NOTE: This SPN needs to be reset by the reset PGN 56832. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 1 s/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 4,211,081,215 s Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64888 
SPN 3746 Aftertreatment 2 Trip Number of Passive Regenerations 
Total number of passive regenerations by aftertreatment device 2 during the current trip period. 
NOTE: This SPN needs to be reset by the reset PGN 56832. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 1 count/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 4,294,967,295 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64888 
SPN 3747 Aftertreatment 2 Trip Number of Active Regeneration Inhibit Requests 
Total number of aftertreatment device 2 active regeneration inhibit requests by the operator during the current trip period. 
NOTE: This SPN needs to be reset by the reset PGN 56832. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 1 count/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 4,294,967,295 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64888 
SPN 3748 Aftertreatment 2 Trip Number of Active Regeneration Manual Requests 
Total number of aftertreatment device 2 active regeneration manual requests by the operator during the current trip 
period.
NOTE: This SPN needs to be reset by the reset PGN 56832. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 1 count/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 4,294,967,295 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64888 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 528 -
(R) SPN 3750 Diesel Particulate Filter 1 Conditions Not Met for Active Regeneration 
Indicates that diesel particulate filter 1 is not able to begin or continue an active regenerate event at the current engine 
operating conditions. 
00 active DPF regeneration not inhibited 
01 active DPF regeneration inhibited 
10 reserved for SAE assignment 
11 not available 
This SPN would indicate that the diesel particulate filter (bank 1) is not able to begin or continue an active regeneration 
event due to current engine operating conditions. 
The conditions on these SPNs are exclusive to the conditions in the PGN 64892 
Examples of these other conditions are: 
- Engine Speed/Load Conditions not met 
- Soot Load Percent not high enough 
SPN 3702 should be set to inhibited when SPN 3750 goes to inhibited status. 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64892 
SPN 3785 Tractor Brake Stroke Axle 1 Left 
Brake stroke status for left brake actuator on tractor axle 1.
000 - OK (Normal operation)
001 - Non-functioning 
010 - Overstroke
011 - Dragging brake 
100 - Reserved 
101 - Reserved 
110 - Sensor error 
111 - Not available 
Data Length: 3 bits 
Resolution: 8 states/3 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 7 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 3785 
PGN reference: 64881 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 529 -
SPN 3786 Tractor Brake Stroke Axle 1 Right 
Brake stroke status for right brake actuator on tractor axle 1.
000 - OK (Normal operation) 
001 - Non-functioning 
010 - Overstroke 
011 - Dragging brake 
100 - Reserved 
101 - Reserved 
110 - Sensor error 
111 - Not available 
Data Length: 3 bits 
Resolution: 8 states/3 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 7 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 3785 
PGN reference: 64881 
SPN 3787 Tractor Brake Stroke Axle 2 Left 
Brake stroke status for left brake actuator on tractor axle 2.
000 - OK (Normal operation) 
001 - Non-functioning 
010 - Overstroke 
011 - Dragging brake 
100 - Reserved 
101 - Reserved 
110 - Sensor error 
111 - Not available 
Data Length: 3 bits 
Resolution: 8 states/3 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 7 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 3785 
PGN reference: 64881 
SPN 3788 Tractor Brake Stroke Axle 2 Right 
Brake stroke status for right brake actuator on tractor axle 2. 
000 - OK (Normal operation) 
001 - Non-functioning 
010 - Overstroke 
011 - Dragging brake 
100 - Reserved 
101 - Reserved 
110 - Sensor error 
111 - Not available 
Data Length: 3 bits 
Resolution: 8 states/3 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 7 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 3785 
PGN reference: 64881 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 530 -
SPN 3789 Tractor Brake Stroke Axle 3 Left 
Brake stroke status for left brake actuator on tractor axle 3. 
000 - OK (Normal operation) 
001 - Non-functioning 
010 - Overstroke 
011 - Dragging brake 
100 - Reserved 
101 - Reserved 
110 - Sensor error 
111 - Not available 
Data Length: 3 bits 
Resolution: 8 states/3 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 7 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 3785 
PGN reference: 64881 
SPN 3790 Tractor Brake Stroke Axle 3 Right 
Brake stroke status for right brake actuator on tractor axle 3. 
000 - OK (Normal operation) 
001 - Non-functioning 
010 - Overstroke 
011 - Dragging brake 
100 - Reserved 
101 - Reserved 
110 - Sensor error 
111 - Not available 
Data Length: 3 bits 
Resolution: 8 states/3 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 7 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 3785 
PGN reference: 64881 
SPN 3791 Tractor Brake Stroke Axle 4 Left 
Brake stroke status for left brake actuator on tractor axle 4. 
000 - OK (Normal operation) 
001 - Non-functioning 
010 - Overstroke 
011 - Dragging brake 
100 - Reserved 
101 - Reserved 
110 - Sensor error 
111 - Not available 
Data Length: 3 bits 
Resolution: 8 states/3 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 7 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 3785 
PGN reference: 64881 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 531 -
SPN 3792 Tractor Brake Stroke Axle 4 Right 
Brake stroke status for right brake actuator on tractor axle 4. 
000 - OK (Normal operation) 
001 - Non-functioning 
010 - Overstroke 
011 - Dragging brake 
100 - Reserved 
101 - Reserved 
110 - Sensor error 
111 - Not available 
Data Length: 3 bits 
Resolution: 8 states/3 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 7 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 3785 
PGN reference: 64881 
SPN 3793 Tractor Brake Stroke Axle 5 Left 
Brake stroke status for left brake actuator on tractor axle 5. 
000 - OK (Normal operation) 
001 - Non-functioning 
010 - Overstroke 
011 - Dragging brake 
100 - Reserved 
101 - Reserved 
110 - Sensor error 
111 - Not available 
Data Length: 3 bits 
Resolution: 8 states/3 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 7 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 3785 
PGN reference: 64881 
SPN 3794 Tractor Brake Stroke Axle 5 Right 
Brake stroke status for right brake actuator on tractor axle 5. 
000 - OK (Normal operation) 
001 - Non-functioning 
010 - Overstroke 
011 - Dragging brake 
100 - Reserved 
101 - Reserved 
110 - Sensor error 
111 - Not available 
Data Length: 3 bits 
Resolution: 8 states/3 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 7 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 3785 
PGN reference: 64881 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 532 -
SPN 3795 Trailer Brake Stroke Axle 1 Left 
Brake stroke status for left brake actuator on trailerr axle 1. 
000 - OK (Normal operation) 
001 - Non-functioning 
010 - Overstroke 
011 - Dragging brake 
100 - Reserved 
101 - Reserved 
110 - Sensor error 
111 - Not available 
Data Length: 3 bits 
Resolution: 8 states/3 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 7 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 3785 
PGN reference: 64881 
SPN 3796 Trailer Brake Stroke Axle 1 Right 
Brake stroke status for right brake actuator on trailer axle 1. 
000 - OK (Normal operation) 
001 - Non-functioning 
010 - Overstroke 
011 - Dragging brake 
100 - Reserved 
101 - Reserved 
110 - Sensor error 
111 - Not available 
Data Length: 3 bits 
Resolution: 8 states/3 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 7 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 3785 
PGN reference: 64881 
SPN 3797 Trailer Brake Stroke Axle 2 Left 
Brake stroke status for left brake actuator on trailer axle 2. 
000 - OK (Normal operation) 
001 - Non-functioning 
010 - Overstroke 
011 - Dragging brake 
100 - Reserved 
101 - Reserved 
110 - Sensor error 
111 - Not available 
Data Length: 3 bits 
Resolution: 8 states/3 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 7 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 3785 
PGN reference: 64881 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 533 -
SPN 3798 Trailer Brake Stroke Axle 2 Right 
Brake stroke status for right brake actuator on trailer axle 2. 
000 - OK (Normal operation) 
001 - Non-functioning 
010 - Overstroke 
011 - Dragging brake 
100 - Reserved 
101 - Reserved 
110 - Sensor error 
111 - Not available 
Data Length: 3 bits 
Resolution: 8 states/3 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 7 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 3785 
PGN reference: 64881 
SPN 3799 Trailer Brake Stroke Axle 3 Left 
Brake stroke status for left brake actuator on trailer axle 3. 
000 - OK (Normal operation) 
001 - Non-functioning 
010 - Overstroke 
011 - Dragging brake 
100 - Reserved 
101 - Reserved 
110 - Sensor error 
111 - Not available 
Data Length: 3 bits 
Resolution: 8 states/3 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 7 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 3785 
PGN reference: 64881 
SPN 3800 Trailer Brake Stroke Axle 3 Right 
Brake stroke status for right brake actuator on trailer axle 3. 
000 - OK (Normal operation) 
001 - Non-functioning 
010 - Overstroke 
011 - Dragging brake 
100 - Reserved 
101 - Reserved 
110 - Sensor error 
111 - Not available 
Data Length: 3 bits 
Resolution: 8 states/3 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 7 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 3785 
PGN reference: 64881 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 534 -
SPN 3801 Trailer Brake Stroke Axle 4 Left 
Brake stroke status for left brake actuator on trailer axle 4. 
000 - OK (Normal operation) 
001 - Non-functioning 
010 - Overstroke 
011 - Dragging brake 
100 - Reserved 
101 - Reserved 
110 - Sensor error 
111 - Not available 
Data Length: 3 bits 
Resolution: 8 states/3 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 7 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 3785 
PGN reference: 64881 
SPN 3802 Trailer Brake Stroke Axle 4 Right 
Brake stroke status for right brake actuator on trailer axle 4. 
000 - OK (Normal operation) 
001 - Non-functioning 
010 - Overstroke 
011 - Dragging brake 
100 - Reserved 
101 - Reserved 
110 - Sensor error 
111 - Not available 
Data Length: 3 bits 
Resolution: 8 states/3 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 7 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 3785 
PGN reference: 64881 
SPN 3803 Trailer Brake Stroke Axle 5 Left 
Brake stroke status for left brake actuator on trailer axle 5. 
000 - OK (Normal operation) 
001 - Non-functioning 
010 - Overstroke 
011 - Dragging brake 
100 - Reserved 
101 - Reserved 
110 - Sensor error 
111 - Not available 
Data Length: 3 bits 
Resolution: 8 states/3 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 7 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 3785 
PGN reference: 64881 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 535 -
SPN 3804 Trailer Brake Stroke Axle 5 Right 
Brake stroke status for right brake actuator on trailer axle 5. 
000 - OK (Normal operation) 
001 - Non-functioning 
010 - Overstroke 
011 - Dragging brake 
100 - Reserved 
101 - Reserved 
110 - Sensor error 
111 - Not available 
Data Length: 3 bits 
Resolution: 8 states/3 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 7 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 3785 
PGN reference: 64881 
SPN 3807 Park Brake Release Inhibit Request 
Park Brake Release Inhibit Request signals the desire that an applied park brake remain applied and limit the ability of the 
vehicle to be moved.
00 - Park Brake Release Inhibit not requested 
01 - Park Brake Release Inhibit requested 
10 - SAE reserved 
11 - Unavailable 
This parameter provides the capability to request the device controlling a parking brake to inhibit its release. This is 
intended for devices to request the park brake remain applied. Status 00b is provided when conditions recommending 
the application of the park brake no longer exist for the sender. 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65265 
SPN 3808 Park Brake Release Inhibit Status 
This parameter provides reports on the status of the Park Brake Release Inhibit function. 
00 - Park Brake release is not inhibited 
01 - Park Brake release is inhibited 
10 - Error (for example: Park Brake release is not inhibited, but is requested to be inhibited) 
11 - Unavailable 
The device controlling the Park Brake sends a status of the inhibit function. The allowed release of the park brake is 
provided as status 00b. 01b indicates that the release of the park brake is inhibited. The release may be inhibited by 
either an external request or by local information available to the controlling device. 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65274 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 536 -
SPN 3809 Transmission Oil Level Request 
Conveys operator or vehicle system desire for a transmission oil level reading to be taken.
00 - No transmission oil level reading desired 
01 - Transmission oil level reading desired 
10 - Reserved 
11 - Don't care / take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64980 
SPN 3810 Retract Status of ramp 1 
Retract status of ramp at doorway 1, counting from front to back on the vehicle. 
00 ramp retracted 
01 ramp extended 
10 error 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64880 
SPN 3811 Enable status of ramp 1 
Enable status of ramp at doorway 1, counting from front to back on the vehicle. 
 00 ramp disabled 
 01 ramp enabled
 10 error
 11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64880 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 537 -
SPN 3812 Movement status of ramp 1 
Movement status of ramp at doorway 1, counting from front to back on the vehicle. 
00 ramp not being moved 
01 ramp being moved 
10 error 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64880 
SPN 3813 Retract Status of ramp 2 
Retract status of ramp at doorway 2, counting from front to back on the vehicle. 
00 ramp retracted 
01 ramp extended 
10 error 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64880 
SPN 3814 Enable status of ramp 2 
Enable status of ramp at doorway 2, counting from front to back on the vehicle. 
00 ramp disabled 
01 ramp enabled
10 error
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64880 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 538 -
SPN 3815 Movement status of ramp 2 
Movement status of ramp at doorway 2, counting from front to back on the vehicle. 
00 ramp not being moved 
01 ramp being moved 
10 error 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64880 
SPN 3816 Retract Status of ramp 3 
Retract status of ramp at doorway 3, counting from front to back on the vehicle. 
00 ramp retracted 
01 ramp extended 
10 error 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64880 
SPN 3817 Enable status of ramp 3 
Enable status of ramp at doorway 3, counting from front to back on the vehicle. 
00 ramp disabled 
01 ramp enabled
10 error
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64880 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 539 -
SPN 3818 Movement status of ramp 3 
Movement status of ramp at doorway 3, counting from front to back on the vehicle. 
00 ramp not being moved 
01 ramp being moved 
10 error 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64880 
SPN 3819 Front axle group engagement status 
Front axle group engagement status
00 front axle group disengaged
01 front axle group engaged 
10 error 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61446 
SPN 3820 Rear axle group engagement status 
Rear axle group engagement status 
00 rear axle group disengaged
01 rear axle group engaged 
10 error 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61446 
SPN 3821 Engine Exhaust Gas Recirculation 1 (EGR1) Valve 2 Control 
Desired percentage of maximum Exhaust Gas Recirculation (EGR) valve opening for valve 2. 0% means valve is closed. 
100% means maximum valve opening (full gas flow). 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.0025 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 160.6375 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 27 
PGN reference: 64879 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 540 -
SPN 3822 Engine Exhaust Gas Recirculation 1 Valve 2 Position 
The position of the second exhaust gas recirculation valve expressed as a percentage of full travel. Zero percent means 
the valve is closed and no exhaust gas is flowing into the intake air stream. One hundred percent means the valve is fully 
opened.
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.0025 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 160.6375 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 27 
PGN reference: 64916 
SPN 3823 Transmission Torque Converter Oil Outlet Temperature 
Temperature of transmission torque converter outlet oil. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64917 
(R) SPN 3826 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Average Consumption 
Measured use of diesel exhaust fluid by a Selective Catalytic Reduction system for exhaust emission control, averaged 
over the previous 15 hours of engine operation. 
Used to determine whether the SCR system is using an appropriate amount of diesel exhaust fluid, by comparing with the 
Aftertreatment 1 Commanded Diesel Exhaust Fluid Consumption parameter (SPN 3828). 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.05 L/h per bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3,212.75 L/h Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64878 
(R) SPN 3828 Aftertreatment 1 Commanded Diesel Exhaust Fluid Consumption 
This parameter transmits the amount of diesel exhaust fluid that the emissions control system has requested to be used, 
averaged over the past 15 hours of engine operation. 
Used to determine whether the SCR system is using an appropriate amount of diesel exhaust fluid, by comparing with the 
Aftertreatment 1 Average Diesel Exhaust Fluid Consumption parameter (SPN 3826). 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.05 L/h per bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3,212.75 L/h Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64878 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 541 -
SPN 3830 Aftertreatment 1 Secondary Air Differential Pressure 
Indicates the secondary air differential pressure for aftertreatment 1. Secondary air is air provided to the exhaust system 
(per SAE J2403). 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1/128 kPa/bit, -250 kPa offset 
Data Range: -250 kPa TO 251.99 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64877 
SPN 3831 Aftertreatment 1 Secondary Air Temperature 
Indicates the secondary air temperature for aftertreatment 1. Secondary air is air provided to the exhaust system (per 
SAE J2403). 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64877 
SPN 3832 Aftertreatment 1 Secondary Air Mass Flow 
Indicates the secondary air mass flow for aftertreatment 1. Secondary air is the air provided to the exhaust system (per 
SAE J2403). 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.2 kg/h per bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 12851 kg/h per bit Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64877 
SPN 3833 Aftertreatment 2 Secondary Air Differential Pressure 
Indicates the secondary air differential pressure for aftertreatment 2. Secondary air is air provided to the exhaust system 
(per SAE J2403). 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1/128 kPa/bit, -250 kPa offset 
Data Range: -250 kPa TO 251.99 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64876 
SPN 3834 Aftertreatment 2 Secondary Air Temperature 
Indicates the secondary air temperature for aftertreatment 2. Secondary air is air provided to the exhaust system (per 
SAE J2403). 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64876 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 542 -
SPN 3835 Aftertreatment 2 Secondary Air Mass Flow 
Indicates the secondary air mass flow for aftertreatment 2. Secondary air is the air provided to the exhaust system (per 
SAE J2403). 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.2 kg/h per bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 12851 kg/h per bit Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64876 
(R) SPN 3837 Aftertreatment 1 Secondary Air Pressure 
Pressure of the secondary air for aftertreatment 1. Secondary air is air provided to the exhaust system (per SAE J2403). 
For absolute pressure, see SPN 5589. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6,425.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64877 
(R) SPN 3838 Aftertreatment 2 Secondary Air Pressure 
Pressure of the secondary air for aftertreatment 2. Secondary air is air provided to the exhaust system (per SAE J2403). 
For absolute pressure, see SPN 5590. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6,425.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64876 
SPN 3839 Brake Temperature Warning 
This parameter indicates if the temperature in the service brakes exceeds a certain value. It can be used for a warning 
information for the driver. The temperature warning value is vehicle manufacturer specific. 
00 Not Active 
01 Active 
10 Reserved 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64964 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 543 -
SPN 3840 Auxiliary I/O #17 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42752 
SPN 3841 Auxiliary I/O #18 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42752 
SPN 3842 Auxiliary I/O #19 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42752 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 544 -
SPN 3843 Auxiliary I/O #20 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42752 
SPN 3844 Auxiliary I/O #21 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42752 
SPN 3845 Auxiliary I/O #22 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42752 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 545 -
SPN 3846 Auxiliary I/O #23 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42752 
SPN 3847 Auxiliary I/O #24 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42752 
SPN 3848 Auxiliary I/O #25 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42752 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 546 -
SPN 3849 Auxiliary I/O #26 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42752 
SPN 3850 Auxiliary I/O #27 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42752 
SPN 3851 Auxiliary I/O #28 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42752 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 547 -
SPN 3852 Auxiliary I/O #29 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42752 
SPN 3853 Auxiliary I/O #30 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42752 
SPN 3854 Auxiliary I/O #31 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42752 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 548 -
SPN 3855 Auxiliary I/O #32 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42752 
SPN 3856 Auxiliary I/O #33 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42752 
SPN 3857 Auxiliary I/O #34 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42752 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 549 -
SPN 3858 Auxiliary I/O #35 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42752 
SPN 3859 Auxiliary I/O #36 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42752 
SPN 3860 Auxiliary I/O #37 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42752 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 550 -
SPN 3861 Auxiliary I/O #38 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42752 
SPN 3862 Auxiliary I/O #39 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42752 
SPN 3863 Auxiliary I/O #40 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42752 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 551 -
SPN 3864 Auxiliary I/O #41 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42752 
SPN 3865 Auxiliary I/O #42 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42752 
SPN 3866 Auxiliary I/O #43 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42752 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 552 -
SPN 3867 Auxiliary I/O #44 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42752 
SPN 3868 Auxiliary I/O #45 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42752 
SPN 3869 Auxiliary I/O #46 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42752 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 553 -
SPN 3870 Auxiliary I/O #47 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42752 
SPN 3871 Auxiliary I/O #48 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42752 
SPN 3872 Auxiliary I/O #49 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42496 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 554 -
SPN 3873 Auxiliary I/O #50 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42496 
SPN 3874 Auxiliary I/O #51 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42496 
SPN 3875 Auxiliary I/O #52 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42496 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 555 -
SPN 3876 Auxiliary I/O #53 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42496 
SPN 3877 Auxiliary I/O #54 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42496 
SPN 3878 Auxiliary I/O #55 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42496 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 556 -
SPN 3879 Auxiliary I/O #56 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42496 
SPN 3880 Auxiliary I/O #57 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42496 
SPN 3881 Auxiliary I/O #58 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42496 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 557 -
SPN 3882 Auxiliary I/O #59 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42496 
SPN 3883 Auxiliary I/O #60 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42496 
SPN 3884 Auxiliary I/O #61 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42496 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 558 -
SPN 3885 Auxiliary I/O #62 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42496 
SPN 3886 Auxiliary I/O #63 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42496 
SPN 3887 Auxiliary I/O #64 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42496 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 559 -
SPN 3888 Auxiliary I/O #65 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42496 
SPN 3889 Auxiliary I/O #66 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42496 
SPN 3890 Auxiliary I/O #67 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42496 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 560 -
SPN 3891 Auxiliary I/O #68 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42496 
SPN 3892 Auxiliary I/O #69 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42496 
SPN 3893 Auxiliary I/O #70 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42496 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 561 -
SPN 3894 Auxiliary I/O #71 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42496 
SPN 3895 Auxiliary I/O #72 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42496 
SPN 3896 Auxiliary I/O #73 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42496 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 562 -
SPN 3897 Auxiliary I/O #74 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42496 
SPN 3898 Auxiliary I/O #75 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42496 
SPN 3899 Auxiliary I/O #76 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42496 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 563 -
SPN 3900 Auxiliary I/O #77 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42496 
SPN 3901 Auxiliary I/O #78 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42496 
SPN 3902 Auxiliary I/O #79 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42496 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 564 -
SPN 3903 Auxiliary I/O #80 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42496 
SPN 3904 Auxiliary I/O #81 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42240 
SPN 3905 Auxiliary I/O #82 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42240 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 565 -
SPN 3906 Auxiliary I/O #83 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42240 
SPN 3907 Auxiliary I/O #84 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42240 
SPN 3908 Auxiliary I/O #85 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42240 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 566 -
SPN 3909 Auxiliary I/O #86 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42240 
SPN 3910 Auxiliary I/O #87 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42240 
SPN 3911 Auxiliary I/O #88 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42240 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 567 -
SPN 3912 Auxiliary I/O #89 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42240 
SPN 3913 Auxiliary I/O #90 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42240 
SPN 3914 Auxiliary I/O #91 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42240 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 568 -
SPN 3915 Auxiliary I/O #92 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42240 
SPN 3916 Auxiliary I/O #93 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42240 
SPN 3917 Auxiliary I/O #94 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42240 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 569 -
SPN 3918 Auxiliary I/O #95 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42240 
SPN 3919 Auxiliary I/O #96 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42240 
SPN 3920 Auxiliary I/O #97 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42240 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 570 -
SPN 3921 Auxiliary I/O #98 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42240 
SPN 3922 Auxiliary I/O #99 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42240 
SPN 3923 Auxiliary I/O #100 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42240 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 571 -
SPN 3924 Auxiliary I/O #101 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42240 
SPN 3925 Auxiliary I/O #102 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42240 
SPN 3926 Auxiliary I/O #103 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42240 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 572 -
SPN 3927 Auxiliary I/O #104 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42240 
SPN 3928 Auxiliary I/O #105 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42240 
SPN 3929 Auxiliary I/O #106 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42240 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 573 -
SPN 3930 Auxiliary I/O #107 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42240 
SPN 3931 Auxiliary I/O #108 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42240 
SPN 3932 Auxiliary I/O #109 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42240 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 574 -
SPN 3933 Auxiliary I/O #110 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42240 
SPN 3934 Auxiliary I/O #111 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42240 
SPN 3935 Auxiliary I/O #112 
Identifies the current status of auxiliary input/output functions that are configured uniquely per application. 
00 - Auxiliary channel off 
01 - Auxiliary channel on 
10 - Error Indicator or Not Used , depending on application 
11 - Not Available or Take No Action, depending on application 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 42240 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 575 -
SPN 3939 Enable Switch - PTO Engine Flywheel 
Status of the PTO Engine Flywheel enable switch 
00 Enable switch off – PTO operation not desired 
01 Enable switch on – PTO operation desired
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64932 
SPN 3940 Engagement Consent - PTO Engine Flywheel 
Engagement Consent status for the PTO Engine Flywheel 
00 Consent not given – PTO drive may not be engaged 
01 Consent given – PTO drive may be engaged 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64932 
SPN 3941 Engagement Status - PTO Engine Flywheel 
Engagement status of the PTO Engine Flywheel 
00 Drive not engaged 
01 Drive engaged 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64932 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 576 -
SPN 3942 Enable Switch - PTO Engine Accessory Drive 1 
Status of the PTO engine accessory drive 1 enable switch 
00 Enable switch off – PTO operation not desired 
01 Enable switch on – PTO operation desired 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64932 
SPN 3943 Engagement Consent - PTO Engine Accessory Drive 1 
Engagement consent status for the PTO engine accessory drive 1 
00 Consent not given – PTO drive may not be engaged 
01 Consent given – PTO drive may be engaged 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64932 
SPN 3944 Engagement Status - PTO Engine Accessory Drive 1 
Engagement status of the PTO engine accessory drive 1 
00 Drive not engaged 
01 Drive engaged 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64932 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 577 -
SPN 3945 Enable Switch - PTO Engine Accessory Drive 2 
Status of the PTO engine accessory drive 2 enable switch 
00 Enable switch off – PTO operation not desired 
01 Enable switch on – PTO operation desired 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64932 
SPN 3946 Engagement Consent - PTO Engine Accessory Drive 2 
Engagement Consent status for the PTO engine accessory drive 2
00 Consent not given – PTO drive may not be engaged 
01 Consent given – PTO drive may be engaged 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64932 
SPN 3947 Engagement Status - PTO Engine Accessory Drive 2 
Engagement status of the PTO engine accessory drive 2 
00 Drive not engaged 
01 Drive engaged 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64932 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 578 -
SPN 3948 At least one PTO engaged 
Indicates that at least one PTO is engaged 
00 No PTO drive is engaged 
01 At least one PTO drive is engaged 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Note: This parameter should only be sent by the controller that has knowledge of all PTO drives on the vehicle (e.g, the 
FMS gateway). Individual PTO drive controllers should broadcast this parameter as "not available". 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64932 
SPN 3987 Compression Brake Enable Switch Indicator Lamp Command 
Command signal directly controlling Compression Brake Enable Switch Indicator Lamp. The compression brake switch 
indicator signals the status of the compression brake enable switch to the operator. 
00 - Lamp OFF 
01 - Lamp ON 
10 - Reserved 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64775 
SPN 4059 Steer Axle Group Weight Available 
Indicates the availability of the steer axle group for purposes of weight measurement 
00 = Steer axle group not present 
01 = Steer axle group present 
10 = Reserved 
11 = Not available / not applicable 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64875 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 579 -
SPN 4060 Lift Axle Group Weight Available 
Indicates the availability of the lift axle group for purposes of weight measurement 
00 = Lift axle group not present 
01 = Lift axle group present 
10 = Reserved 
11 = Not available / not applicable 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64875 
SPN 4061 Drive Axle Group Weight Available 
Indicates the availability of the drive axle group for purposes of weight measurement 
00 = Drive axle group not present 
01 = Drive axle group present 
10 = Reserved 
11 = Not available / not applicable 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64875 
SPN 4062 Tag Axle Group Weight Available 
Indicates the availability of the tag axle group for purposes of weight measurement 
00 = Tag axle group not present 
01 = Tag axle group present 
10 = Reserved 
11 = Not available / not applicable 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64875 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 580 -
SPN 4063 Additional Tractor Axle Group Weight Available 
Indicates the availability of the additional tractor axle group for purposes of weight measurement 
00 = Additional tractor axle group not present 
01 = Additional tractor axle group present 
10 = Reserved 
11 = Not available / not applicable 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64875 
SPN 4064 Trailer A Axle Group Weight Available 
Indicates the availability of the trailer A axle group for purposes of weight measurement 
00 = Trailer A axle group not present 
01 = Trailer A axle group present 
10 = Reserved 
11 = Not available / not applicable 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64875 
SPN 4065 Trailer B Axle Group Weight Available 
Indicates the availability of the trailer B axle group for purposes of weight measurement 
00 = Trailer B axle group not present 
01 = Trailer B axle group present 
10 = Reserved 
11 = Not available / not applicable 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64875 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 581 -
SPN 4066 Trailer C Axle Group Weight Available 
Indicates the availability of the trailer C axle group for purposes of weight measurement 
00 = Trailer C axle group not present 
01 = Trailer C axle group present 
10 = Reserved 
11 = Not available / not applicable 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64875 
SPN 4067 Trailer D Axle Group Weight Available 
Indicates the availability of the trailer D axle group for purposes of weight measurement 
00 = Trailer D axle group not present 
01 = Trailer D axle group present 
10 = Reserved 
11 = Not available / not applicable 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64875 
SPN 4068 Trailer E Axle Group Weight Available 
Indicates the availability of the trailer E axle group for purposes of weight measurement 
00 = Trailer E axle group not present 
01 = Trailer E axle group present 
10 = Reserved 
11 = Not available / not applicable 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64875 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 582 -
SPN 4069 Trailer F Axle Group Weight Available 
Indicates the availability of the trailer F axle group for purposes of weight measurement 
00 = Trailer F axle group not present 
01 = Trailer F axle group present 
10 = Reserved 
11 = Not available / not applicable 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64875 
SPN 4070 Trailer G Axle Group Weight Available 
Indicates the availability of the trailer G axle group for purposes of weight measurement 
00 = Trailer G axle group not present 
01 = Trailer G axle group present 
10 = Reserved 
11 = Not available / not applicable 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64875 
SPN 4071 Trailer H Axle Group Weight Available 
Indicates the availability of the trailer H axle group for purposes of weight measurement 
00 = Trailer H axle group not present 
01 = Trailer H axle group present 
10 = Reserved 
11 = Not available / not applicable 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64875 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 583 -
SPN 4072 Additional Trailer Axle Group Weight Available 
Indicates the availability of the additional trailer axle group for purposes of weight measurement 
00 = Additional trailer axle group not present 
01 = Additional trailer axle group present 
10 = Reserved 
11 = Not available / not applicable 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64875 
SPN 4073 Axle Group Location 
Specific axle group used in conjunction with and when communicating the axle group weight, listed from the front of the 
vehicle to the rear. 
0 = Reserved 
1 = Steer axle group 
2 = Lift axle group 
3 = Drive axle group 
4 = Tag axle group 
5 = Additional tractor axle group 
6 = Trailer A axle group 
7 = Trailer B axle group 
8 = Trailer C axle group 
9 = Trailer D axle group 
10 = Trailer E axle group 
11 = Trailer F axle group 
12 = Trailer G axle group 
13 = Trailer H axle group 
14 = Additional trailer axle group 
15 = Reserved 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64874 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 584 -
SPN 4074 Axle Group Location 
Specific axle group used in conjunction with and when communicating the axle group calibration, listed from the front of 
the vehicle to the rear. 
0 = Reserved 
1 = Steer axle group 
2 = Lift axle group 
3 = Drive axle group 
4 = Tag axle group 
5 = Additional tractor axle group 
6 = Trailer A axle group 
7 = Trailer B axle group 
8 = Trailer C axle group 
9 = Trailer D axle group 
10 = Trailer E axle group 
11 = Trailer F axle group 
12 = Trailer G axle group 
13 = Trailer H axle group 
14 = Additional trailer axle group 
15 = Reserved 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64873 
SPN 4075 Zero Net Vehicle Weight Change 
Zero Net Vehicle Weight Change command. A controller receiving this command will record the current Gross 
Combination Weight as the new Zero, and future requests for Net Vehicle Weight Change will be answered with the 
difference between the (then) current Gross Combination Weight and the recorded value. 
00 - No change to Net Vehicle Weight Change
01 - Zero Net Vehicle Weight Change 
10 - Reserved 
11 - Not available / Not applicable 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64871 
SPN 4076 Engine Coolant Temperature 2 
Second temperature of liquid found in the engine cooling system. See also SPN 110. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 deg C/bit, -40 deg C offset 
Data Range: -40 to 210 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64870 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 585 -
SPN 4077 Aftertreatment 1 Fuel Pressure 2 
Second fuel pressure measurement for the aftertreatment 1 system 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6,425.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64869 
SPN 4082 Fuel Pump Primer Control 
Parameter used to activate or deactivate a priming system on the fuel transfer system. The fuel priming system is a 
system that purges air in the fuel lines and may assist fuel delivery to a second pump at lower speeds. 
00 = Deactivate 
01 = Activate 
10 = Reserved 
11 = Unavailable 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64914 
SPN 4083 Fuel Pump Primer Status 
Parameter used to transmit the actual status of the fuel priming system. The fuel priming system is a system that purges 
air in the fuel lines and may assist fuel delivery to a second pump at lower speeds. 
00 – Off 
01 – On 
10 – Error 
11 – Unavailable 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65130 
SPN 4086 Valve Load Sense Pressure 
The maximum of the currently measured pressures of a valve's work port A and work port B. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 5 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 321,275 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 1792 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 586 -
SPN 4087 Valve Pilot Pressure 
Pressure of a valve's pilot supply port. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 16 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 4000 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 1792 
SPN 4088 Valve Assembly Load sense Pressure 
The maximum pressure of a valve assembly's current collective load sense pressures where a valve assembly can 
consist of two or more valves. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 5 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 321,275 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 1792 
SPN 4089 Valve Assembly Supply Pressure 
Pressure of the hydraulic supply port to a valve assembly. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 5 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 321,275 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 1792 
SPN 4097 Aftertreatment 1 Fuel Drain Actuator 
Indicates whether aftertreatment 1 fuel drain actuator is on or off 
00 not active 
01 active 
10 reserved for SAE assignment 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64929 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 587 -
SPN 4098 Aftertreatment 2 Fuel Drain Actuator 
Indicates whether aftertreatment 2 fuel drain actuator is on or off 
00 not active 
01 active 
10 reserved for SAE assignment 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64928 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 588 -
SPN 4099 XBR urgency 
The idea of the urgency value is to adjust the endurance brake integration behavior in the EBS system according to the 
traffic situation. 
On low urgency values (0%, e.g. downhill cruise control or preceding vehicle far ahead) the brake system shall primarily 
use endurance brakes to reduce lining wear. 
On high urgency values (100%, e.g. vehicle close up or a vehicle cuts into the traffic line just before host vehicle) the 
brake system is expected to gain the demanded deceleration (acceleration) as fast as possible. 
Values:
0% - Situation not critical; low retarder dynamics are tolerated. Activation of the foundation brakes after a time if retarder 
performance is insufficient 
y % - Faster activation of foundation brakes to compensate retarder performance, linear interpolation between 0 and
100%
100% - Low retarder dynamics shall be fully compensated by the foundation brakes 
Notes:
- This parameter has only an effect if XBR EBI switch is set to "10: endurance brake integration allowed" 
- XBR urgency makes sense only if the XBR request(s) is (are) processed in one device like the EBS controller which also 
sends TSC1 to the retarder(s). Such a data flow diagram is shown in figure PGN1024_A. When the Retarder is controlled 
directly by the XBR transmitter XBR urgency should be set to not available. 
In adaptive cruise control (ACC) operation there are situations where it is useful to have as less lining wear as possible 
like keeping the set speed on going downhill. It would not be useful to activate foundation brakes in such a situation 
except when the capabilities of the endurance brakes are not sufficient. 
In other situations like emergency braking or fast reaction on a car that cut in at a short distance in front of the own 
vehicle a reaction as fast as possible is needed. In such cases low retarder dynamics must be compensated by the 
foundation brakes. 
There are two different ways to integrate the endurance brakes into the adaptive cruise control. 
a) the request for deceleration could be processed by the EBS system completely. This means that the EBS receives the 
deceleration demand and activates the friction and/or the endurance brakes accordingly. EBS is sending the TSC1 to the 
retarder. (see figure PGN1024_A dataflow diagram for external brake request) 
b) the ACC sends XBR to the brake controller and TSC1 to the endurance brakes. 
In case "a)" the ACC system does not have direct control of the endurance brakes. To adjust the endurance brakes 
according to the traffic situation (high or low urgency values see above) this new SPN is needed. 
If the retarder performance is not sufficient (e.g. because of high retarder temperature) the foundation brakes will be 
added automatically. This case of not sufficient retarder performance cannot be covered by switching EBI mode from 01 
(endurance brakes only) to EBI mode 10 (endurance brake integration allowed) because the actual deceleration caused 
by the retarder is less than the requested decelleration. A simple switching (01 to 10) would cause an uncomfortable jerk. 
NOTE: This parameter is defined in European patent EP 1 386 774 B1 (see reference in section 2.1.3) and is included 
with permission from the patent holder. The patent holder is prepared to grant a free license to an unrestricted number of 
applicants on a worldwide, non-discriminatory basis to comply with this recommended practice. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 1024 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 589 -
SPN 4151 Engine Exhaust Gas Temperature Average 
The calculated average temperature based upon all of the engine exhaust port temperatures. This is the average 
temperature based upon the exhaust port temperature measurements at each of the engine cylinders. 
Notes: 
Use SPN 173 - Engine Exhaust Gas Temperature to report the actual measured temperature of the exhaust for the entire 
engine, after the turbocharger. 
See SPN 2433 - Engine Exhaust Gas Temperature - Right Manifold, and SPN 2434 - Engine Exhaust Gas Temperature - 
Left Manifold to report the actual measured temperature of the manifold for engines requiring more than one exhaust 
temperature measurement. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 4151 
PGN reference: 64851 
SPN 4152 Engine Exhaust Gas Temperature Average - Bank 2 
The calculated average temperature based upon all of the Bank 2 (right bank) engine exhaust port temperatures. This is 
the average temperature based upon the exhaust port temperature measurements of each of the engine cylinders on the 
right bank before the turbocharger. 
Use SPN 2433 Engine Exhaust Gas Temperature - Right Manifold to report the actual measured temperature of the 
manifold on the right side as seen from the flywheel end of the engine. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 4151 
PGN reference: 64851 
SPN 4153 Engine Exhaust Gas Temperature Average - Bank 1 
The calculated average temperature based upon all of the Bank 1 (left bank) engine exhaust port temperatures. This is 
the average temperature based upon the exhaust port temperature measurements of each of the engine cylinders on the 
left bank prior to the turbocharger. 
Use SPN 2434 Engine Exhaust Gas Temperature - Left Manifold to report the actual measured temperature of the 
manifold on the left side as seen from the flywheel end of the engine. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 4151 
PGN reference: 64851 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 590 -
SPN 4154 Actual Engine - Percent Torque High Resolution 
This parameter displays an additional torque in percent of the reference engine torque.
When the MSB is set to 1, this parameter is not available. When the MSB is set to 0, bits 1 to 3 indicate the desired 
torque with resolution of 0.125%/bit . Range is from 0 to 0.875% of reference torque.
The parameter is used in combination with SPN 513 Actual Engine Torque. The resulting actual engine torque will be 
calculated by adding these two parameters.
Additional torque representations 
0000 = +0.000% 
0001 = +0.125% 
.
.
.
0111 = +0.875% 
1000 - 1111 = not available 
For example, if SPN 513 = 150 (or 25%) and this parameter is 0100, the torque would be 25.5%. 
If SPN 513 = 175 (or 50%) and this parameter is 0001, the torque would be 50.125% 
If SPN 513 = 175 (or 50%) and this parameter is 1111, the torque would remain 50% (no high resolution available) 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 0.125%/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 0.875% Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61444 
SPN 4155 Auxiliary I/O Channel #6 
Identifies the current value of auxiliary input/output channels that are configured uniquely per application. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1 count/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 64,255 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 2048 
SPN 4156 Auxiliary I/O Channel #5 
Identifies the current value of auxiliary input/output channels that are configured uniquely per application. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1 count/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 64,255 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 2048 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 591 -
SPN 4157 Auxiliary I/O Channel #4 
Identifies the current value of auxiliary input/output channels that are configured uniquely per application. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1 count/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 64,255 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 2048 
SPN 4158 Auxiliary I/O Channel #3 
Identifies the current value of auxiliary input/output channels that are configured uniquely per application. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1 count/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 64,255 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 2048 
SPN 4159 Auxiliary I/O Channel #10 
Identifies the current value of auxiliary input/output channels that are configured uniquely per application. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 count/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 40192 
SPN 4160 Auxiliary I/O Channel #9 
Identifies the current value of auxiliary input/output channels that are configured uniquely per application. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 count/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 40192 
SPN 4161 Auxiliary I/O Channel #8 
Identifies the current value of auxiliary input/output channels that are configured uniquely per application. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 count/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 40192 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 592 -
SPN 4162 Auxiliary I/O Channel #7 
Identifies the current value of auxiliary input/output channels that are configured uniquely per application. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 count/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 40192 
SPN 4163 Auxiliary I/O Channel #14 
Identifies the current value of auxiliary input/output channels that are configured uniquely per application. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 count/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 40192 
SPN 4164 Auxiliary I/O Channel #13 
Identifies the current value of auxiliary input/output channels that are configured uniquely per application. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 count/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 40192 
SPN 4165 Auxiliary I/O Channel #12 
Identifies the current value of auxiliary input/output channels that are configured uniquely per application. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 count/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 40192 
SPN 4166 Auxiliary I/O Channel #11 
Identifies the current value of auxiliary input/output channels that are configured uniquely per application. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 count/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 40192 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 593 -
SPN 4167 Auxiliary I/O Channel #18 
Identifies the current value of auxiliary input/output channels that are configured uniquely per application. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 count/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 39936 
SPN 4168 Auxiliary I/O Channel #17 
Identifies the current value of auxiliary input/output channels that are configured uniquely per application. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 count/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 39936 
SPN 4169 Auxiliary I/O Channel #16 
Identifies the current value of auxiliary input/output channels that are configured uniquely per application. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 count/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 39936 
SPN 4170 Auxiliary I/O Channel #15 
Identifies the current value of auxiliary input/output channels that are configured uniquely per application. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 count/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 39936 
SPN 4171 Auxiliary I/O Channel #22 
Identifies the current value of auxiliary input/output channels that are configured uniquely per application. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 count/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 39936 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 594 -
SPN 4172 Auxiliary I/O Channel #21 
Identifies the current value of auxiliary input/output channels that are configured uniquely per application. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 count/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 39936 
SPN 4173 Auxiliary I/O Channel #20 
Identifies the current value of auxiliary input/output channels that are configured uniquely per application. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 count/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 39936 
SPN 4174 Auxiliary I/O Channel #19 
Identifies the current value of auxiliary input/output channels that are configured uniquely per application. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 count/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Dependent upon Application 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 39936 
SPN 4175 Diesel Particulate Filter Active Regeneration Forced Status 
Indicates the forced execution status of diesel particulate filter regeneration. 
000 Not Active 
001 Active – Forced by Switch (See SPN 3696) 
010 Active – Forced by Service Tool
011 Reserved for SAE Assignment 
100 Reserved for SAE Assignment 
101 Reserved for SAE Assignment 
110 Reserved for SAE Assignment 
111 not available 
This SPN indicates the forced execution status of diesel particulate filter regeneration. The SPN would be “Not Active” 
when the execution of diesel particulate filter regeneration has not been forced. Either of the states “Active – Forced by 
Switch” and “Active – Forced by Service Tool” will be active when execution of diesel particulate filter regeneration is 
forced, providing feedback as to which entity forced the execution of diesel particulate filter regeneration. 
Data Length: 3 bits 
Resolution: 8 states/3 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 7 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64892 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 595 -
SPN 4176 Transmission Current Range Display Blank State 
State signal indicating a transmission request for the display of the Transmission Current Range parameter (SPN 163) to 
be blanked or not blanked. The 'Transmission Current Range Display Blank State' indicator can be utilized by (but not 
limited to) the shift console, instrument cluster, or cab display. Definition of the cause of this state is at the discretion of
the transmission manufacturer. 
00=Not Blanked 
01=Blanked
10=Error
11=Not Supported 
Note: This is a companion of SPN 1850, that will allow the "current range" display to be blanked as needed while still 
retaining a valid current range broadcast in SPN 163. 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65098 
SPN 4177 Transmission Oil Life Remaining 
Signal which indicates the actual oil life remaining in percent. 100% means the transmission oil is brand new, and 0% 
means the transmission oil is at the end of its life. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64917 
SPN 4178 Transmission Service Indicator 
Signal from transmission indicating that some aspect of the gearbox requires servicing, such as the oil, filter, clutch(es) or 
other component. 
00 Transmission Service Indicator is off 
01 Transmission Service Indicator is on continuously 
10 Transmission Service Indicator is flashing 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65098 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 596 -
SPN 4180 Data Dictionary Manufacturer Code 
The J1939 Manufacturer Code (see J1939 Table B10) associated with the manufacturer who defined the proprietary 
communications method. 0x7FF reserved for "Not Available" 
Data Length: 11 bits 
Resolution: 2047 states/11bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 2047 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 39680 
SPN 4181 Data Dictionary Method 
A manufacturer defined code to define the proprietary communications method. The structure and interpretation of the 
code is manufacturer specific. This allows manufacturers to establish their own methods for reporting proprietary support 
for PropA, PropA2, and PropB messages. 
Data Length: 21 bits 
Resolution: 2097151 states/21bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 2097151 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 39680 
SPN 4191 Engine Requested Torque - High Resolution 
This parameter displays an additional torque in percent of the reference engine torque.
When the MSB is set to 1, this parameter is not available. When the MSB is set to 0, bits 1 to 3 indicate the desired 
torque with resolution of 0.125%/bit . Range is from 0 to 0.875% of reference torque.
The parameter is used in combination with SPN 518 Engine Requested Torque/Torque Limit. The resulting torque/torque 
limit will be calculated by adding these two parameters.
Validity of Engine Requested Torque High Res has no effect on SPN 518.
Additional torque representations 
0000 = +0.000% 
0001 = +0.125% 
.
.
.
0111 = +0.875% 
1000 - 1111 = not available 
For example, if SPN 518 = 150 (or 25%) and this parameter is 0100, the torque would be 25.5%. 
If SPN 518 = 175 (or 50%) and this parameter is 0001, the torque would be 50.125% 
If SPN 518 = 175 (or 50%) and this parameter is 1111, the torque would remain 50% (no high resolution available) 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 0.125%/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 0.875% Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 0 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 597 -
SPN 4193 Engine Coolant Pump Outlet Temperature 
The actual value of engine coolant temperature at the coolant pump outlet 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 deg C/bit, -40 deg C offset 
Data Range: -40 to 210 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64870 
SPN 4194 Engine Coolant Thermostat Opening 
The current position of the Thermostat used to regulate the temperature of the engine coolant. 0% represents the 
thermostat allows flow to completely bypass the radiator and 100% represents the flow is fully through the radiator. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64870 
SPN 4195 Engine Coolant Thermostat Mode 
Specifies if the engine coolant thermostat valve will operate in temperature control mode or position control mode. 
00 = temperature control mode 
01 = position control mode (used for service only) 
10 = reserved 
11 = don't care/reserved 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64850 
SPN 4196 Desired Engine Coolant Pump Outlet Temperature 
Desired engine coolant temperature of the engine to an electronic thermostat. If the electronic thermostat valve is 
operating in position control mode (see SPN 4195) then transmit 0xFF. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 deg C/bit, -40 deg C offset 
Data Range: -40 to 210 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64850 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 598 -
SPN 4197 Desired Engine Coolant Thermostat Opening 
Indicates the desired position of the engine coolant control valve. 0% represents the thermostat allows flow to 
completely bypass the radiator and 100% represents the flow is fully through the radiator. If the electronic thermostat is 
operating in temperature control mode (SPN 4195) then transmit 0xFF. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64850 
SPN 4198 Aftercooler Coolant Thermostat Mode 
Specifies if the aftercooler coolant thermostat valve will operate in temperature control mode or position control mode. 
00 = temperature control mode 
01 = position control mode (used for service only) 
10 = reserved 
11 = don't care/reserved 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64849 
SPN 4199 Desired Aftercooler Coolant Intake Temperature 
Indicates the desired temperature of the fluid in the low temperature aftercooler circuit to an electronic thermostat. If the 
aftercooler coolant thermostat valve is operating in position control mode (see SPN 4198) then this value should be 0xFF. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 deg C/bit, -40 deg C offset 
Data Range: -40 to 210 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64849 
SPN 4200 Desired Aftercooler Coolant Thermostat Opening 
Used to transmit the desired position of the low temperature aftercooler temperature control valve. 0% represents the 
thermostat allows flow to completely bypass the aftercooler and 100% represents the flow is fully through the aftercooler.
 If the aftercooler coolant thermostat is operating in temperature control mode (see SPN 4198) then this value should be 
0xFF.
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64849 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 599 -
SPN 4201 Engine Speed 1 
The engine speed as measured by speed sensor 1. 
Note: This is for the engine speed from the 1st engine speed sensor. This may be different than SPN 190 when used in 
multiple engine speed sensor configurations. In an application with only one speed sensor, SPN 190 will represent both 
the speed and the sensor for diagnostic purposes and SPN 4201 will not be used. However, in an application with 
multiple engine speed sensors, SPN 190 data can be derived from any of the speed sensors. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.5 rpm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 32,127.5 rpm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61473 
SPN 4202 Engine Speed 3 
The engine speed as measured by speed sensor 3. 
Note: This is for the engine speed from the 3rd engine speed sensor. This may be different than SPN 190 when used in 
multiple engine speed sensor configurations. In an application with multiple engine speed sensors, SPN 190 data can be 
derived from any of the speed sensors. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.5 rpm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 32,127.5 rpm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61473 
SPN 4203 Engine Speed Sensor 1 Timing Pattern Status 
This is the timing pattern status of the engine speed sensor signal for sensor 1. The sensor may be sending a speed 
signal but the pattern may not be valid. Since the speed is considered valid, the error indicator will not be used in the 
engine speed parameter (SPN 4201). The sensor does give a speed but the pattern is not matched. In this condition, the 
position of the crank has not been determined so injection is not enabled. The engine speed signal provides both engine 
speed and crankshaft location information to the engine control. A "Not OK" status may be caused by extra or missing 
teeth, gear runout, etc. 
00 = Not OK 
01 = OK 
10 = Error 
11 = Not available 
Note: This is intended to be used on a service tool for troubleshooting a no start condition. 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61473 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 600 -
SPN 4204 Engine Speed Sensor 2 Timing Pattern Status 
This is the timing pattern status of the engine speed sensor signal for sensor 2. The sensor may be sending a speed 
signal but the pattern may not be valid. Since the speed is considered valid, the error indicator will not be used in the 
engine speed parameter (SPN 723). 
00 = Not OK 
01 = OK 
10 = Error 
11 = Not available 
Note: This is intended to be used on a service tool for troubleshooting a no start condition. The sensor does give a 
speed but the pattern is not matched. In this condition, the position of the crank has not been determined so injection is 
not enabled. The engine speed signal provides both engine speed and crankshaft location information to the engine 
control. A "Not OK" status may be caused by extra or missing teeth, gear runout, etc. 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61473 
SPN 4205 Engine Speed Sensor 3 Timing Pattern Status 
This is the timing pattern status of the engine speed sensor signal for sensor 3. The sensor may be sending a speed 
signal but the pattern may not be valid. Since the speed is considered valid, the error indicator will not be used in the 
engine speed parameter (SPN 4202). 
00 = Not OK 
01 = OK 
10 = Error 
11 = Not available 
Note: This is intended to be used on a service tool for troubleshooting a no start condition. The sensor does give a 
speed but the pattern is not matched. In this condition, the position of the crank has not been determined so injection is 
not enabled. The engine speed signal provides both engine speed and crankshaft location information to the engine 
control. A "Not OK" status may be caused by extra or missing teeth, gear runout, etc. 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61473 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 601 -
SPN 4206 Message Counter 
The message counter is used to detect situations where the transmitting ECU malfunction repeats the same frame all the 
time. The receiver of the information may use the counter parameter to detect this situation. The transmitting device will 
increase the message counter in every cycle. The message counter will count from 0 to 7 and then wrap.
The values 0x8 thru 0xE are SAE reserved and should be ignored by the receiver. 
Value 0xF (all bits set to 1) will indicate that the message counter is not available. For compatibility purposes, TSC1 
should also be honored if the message counter is not available from the transmitting device. 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 1 count/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: 0 to 7 and 15 exclusively 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 0 
SPN 4207 Message Checksum 
The message checksum is used to verify the signal path from the transmitting device to the receiving device. 
The message checksum is calculated using the first 7 data bytes, the message counter and the bytes of the message 
identifier. It is calculated as follows: 
Checksum = (Byte1 + Byte2 + Byte3 + Byte4 + Byte5 + Byte6 + Byte7 + message counter & 0x0F + message ID low byte 
+ message ID mid low byte + message ID mid high byte + message ID high byte) 
Message Checksum = (((Checksum >> 6) & 0x03) + (Checksum >>3) + Checksum) & 0x07 
Value 0xF (all bits set to 1) will indicate that the checksum is not available. For compatibility purposes, TSC1 should also 
be honored if the checksum is not available from the transmitting device. 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 1 count/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 0 
SPN 4211 Hydraulic Fan Motor Pressure 
The hydraulic pressure used to drive the fan system, sensed before the hydraulic fan motor. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.5 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 32,127.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65213 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 602 -
SPN 4212 Fan Drive Bypass Command Status 
Status of the Fan Drive Bypass Command as being commanded by the ECU. The fan drive bypass diverts pump 
pressure away from the hydraulic motor to maintain the fan drive pressure. 0% is defined as no bypass (i.e. diverting no 
fan drive pressure) and 100% is defined as full bypass (i.e. diverting the maximum fan drive pressure) from the fan motor. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65213 
SPN 4233 Retarder Road Speed Limit Switch 
Retarder road speed limit switch states: 
00 Road speed limiting by retarder is disabled 
01 Road speed limiting by retarder is enabled. The road speed that the retarder will limit will be determined when the 
switch transitions from 00 to 01 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61440 
SPN 4234 Retarder Road Speed Exceeded Status 
Retarder Road Speed Exceeded Status: 
00 Road speed is below threshold
01 Road speed is above threshold and retarder is allowed to be activated 
10 Reserved 
11 Don't care/Take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61440 
SPN 4236 Short-term Fuel Trim - Bank 1 
This parameter is the short-term percent change in fueling based on the O2 sensor feedback for cylinder bank 1, based 
on the operating point in the nominal fuel map. 
Note: This is similar to SPN 1695, but with higher resolution. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 %/bit, -100 offset 
Data Range: -100 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64841 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 603 -
SPN 4237 Long-term Fuel Trim - Bank 1 
This parameter is the long-term percent change in fueling based on the O2 sensor feedback for cylinder bank 1, based on 
the operating point in the nominal fuel map. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 %/bit, -100 offset 
Data Range: -100 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64841 
SPN 4238 Short-term Fuel Trim - Bank 2 
This parameter is the short-term percent change in fueling based on the O2 sensor feedback for cylinder bank 2, based 
on the operating point in the nominal fuel map. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 %/bit, -100 offset 
Data Range: -100 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64840 
SPN 4239 Long-term Fuel Trim - Bank 2 
This parameter is the long-term percent change in fueling based on the O2 sensor feedback for cylinder bank 2, based on 
the operating point in the nominal fuel map. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 %/bit, -100 offset 
Data Range: -100 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64840 
SPN 4240 Engine Exhaust Gas Oxygen Sensor Closed Loop Operation, Bank 1 
This parameter indicates the status of the bank 1 O2 sensor feedback closed loop operation 
0000 = Open loop - has not yet satisfied conditions to go closed loop 
0001 = Closed loop - using oxygen sensor(s) as feedback for fuel control 
0010 = Open loop due to driving conditions (e.g., power enrichment, deceleration enleanment) 
0011 = Open loop - due to detected system fault
0100 = Closed loop, but fault with at least one oxygen sensor - may be using single oxygen sensor for fuel control 
0101-1110 = reserved 
1111 = not supported 
See also SPN 1696 as an prior implementation. 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64841 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 604 -
SPN 4241 Engine Exhaust Gas Oxygen Sensor Closed Loop Operation, Bank 2 
This parameter indicates the status of the bank 2 O2 sensor feedback closed loop operation 
0000 = Open loop - has not yet satisfied conditions to go closed loop 
0001 = Closed loop - using oxygen sensor(s) as feedback for fuel control 
0010 = Open loop due to driving conditions (e.g., power enrichment, deceleration enleanment) 
0011 = Open loop - due to detected system fault
0100 = Closed loop, but fault with at least one oxygen sensor - may be using single oxygen sensor for fuel control 
0101-1110 = reserved 
1111 = not supported 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64840 
SPN 4242 Transmission Reverse Gear Shift Inhibit Request 
Allows devices external to the normal transmission shift selector system to request the transmission to inhibit shifts into 
any Reverse gear and force the transmission into Neutral if it is currently in Reverse or attempting to shift to Reverse.
These transmission responses occur regardless of shift selector (Forward, Neutral or Reverse) position at the time the 
request is received. 
This request would typically come from a component wishing to override the vehicle operator’s ability to shift or keep the 
transmission in Reverse. For example, the control system of a rear-loading refuse packer may wish to prevent shifts to 
reverse when it detects the presence of someone behind the vehicle. 
Reverse gear shift inhibits include all ‘Neutral-to-Reverse’ shifts and ‘Forward-to-Reverse’ shifts; the ability of the 
transmission to complete ‘Neutral-to-Forward’ or ‘Forward-to-Forward’ gear shifts is not impacted. 
If the transmission is in Reverse or attempting to shift to Reverse and receives an active Reverse gear shift inhibit request 
(0b01), the transmission will shift to Neutral. When the request subsequently goes inactive (0b00), the transmission will 
remain in Neutral until it receives a selector input from the vehicle operator requesting it to shift into a Non-Neutral gear. 
The transmission should not automatically return to the previous gear when this signal goes inactive. 
Transmission response to this request can be monitored via SPN 4261 – Transmission Reverse Gear Shift Inhibit Status, 
SPN 523 Transmission Current Gear, and SPN 524 Transmission Selected Gear. 
00 = Allow shifts into Reverse gear 
01 = Inhibit shifts into Reverse gear, and shift transmission to Neutral if already in Reverse or attempting to shift to 
Reverse 
10 = Reserved
11 = Take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 256 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 605 -
SPN 4246 Transmission Mode 5 
Indicates whether transmission mode 5 is enabled. Modes are manufacturer specific and are not necessarily mutually 
exclusive. See also SPN 4250. 
00 Disable 
01 Enable 
10 Reserved 
11 Take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 256 
SPN 4247 Transmission Mode 6 
Indicates whether transmission mode 6 is enabled. Modes are manufacturer specific and are not necessarily mutually 
exclusive. See also SPN 4251. 
00 Disable 
01 Enable 
10 Reserved 
11 Take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 256 
SPN 4248 Transmission Mode 7 
Indicates whether transmission mode 7 is enabled. Modes are manufacturer specific and are not necessarily mutually 
exclusive. See also SPN 4252. 
00 Disable 
01 Enable 
10 Reserved 
11 Take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 256 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 606 -
SPN 4249 Transmission Mode 8 
Indicates whether transmission mode 8 is enabled. Modes are manufacturer specific and are not necessarily mutually 
exclusive. See also SPN 4253. 
00 Disable 
01 Enable 
10 Reserved 
11 Take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 256 
SPN 4250 Transmission Mode 5 Indicator 
Indicates whether transmission mode 5 is enabled. Modes are manufacturer specific and are not necessarily mutually 
exclusive. See also SPN 4246. 
00 Disable 
01 Enable 
10 Reserved 
11 Take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65098 
SPN 4251 Transmission Mode 6 Indicator 
Indicates whether transmission mode 6 is enabled. Modes are manufacturer specific and are not necessarily mutually 
exclusive. See also SPN 4247. 
00 Disable 
01 Enable 
10 Reserved 
11 Take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65098 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 607 -
SPN 4252 Transmission Mode 7 Indicator 
Indicates whether transmission mode 7 is enabled. Modes are manufacturer specific and are not necessarily mutually 
exclusive. See also SPN 4248. 
00 Disable 
01 Enable 
10 Reserved 
11 Take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65098 
SPN 4253 Transmission Mode 8 Indicator 
Indicates whether transmission mode 8 is enabled. Modes are manufacturer specific and are not necessarily mutually 
exclusive. See also SPN 4249. 
00 Disable 
01 Enable 
10 Reserved 
11 Take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65098 
SPN 4254 Transmission Mode Label 
Conveys ASCII ‘labels’ for each of the manufacturer-specified TC1 Transmission Mode ’x’ / ETC7 Transmission Mode 
Indicator ‘x’ pairs. Intended for use with on-board or service tool displays. 
NOTE – Non-printable or non-graphic ASCII characters are not allowed, and the ASCII character “*” is reserved as a 
delimiter
Data Length: Variable - up to 25 bytes followed by an "*" delimiter 
Resolution: ASCII, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 255 per byte Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 64839 
PGN reference: 64839 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 608 -
SPN 4255 Transmission Requested Launch Gear 
Initial gear for the transmission to start out in when the vehicle is launched from a standing stop, as specified by the 
vehicle operator or vehicle system. Automatic transmissions typically default to starting out in 1st gear. However, in 
applications such as those with very low gearing, it is desirable to launch the vehicle in a range higher than 1st. For 
example, when the vehicle has little or no payload, the operator may wish to launch from 2nd or 3rd gear to avoid 
stacked, unnecessary shifts in the lower ranges. 
0000 = No specific launch gear requested; use default launch gear 
0001 = Launch the vehicle in 1st gear 
0010 = Launch the vehicle in 2nd gear 
0011 = Launch the vehicle in 3rd gear 
0100 = Launch the vehicle in 4th gear 
0101 = Launch the vehicle in 5th gear 
0110 = Launch the vehicle in 6th gear 
0111 = Launch the vehicle in 7th gear 
1000 = Launch the vehicle in 8th gear 
1001 = Launch the vehicle in Reverse 1 
1010 = Launch the vehicle in Reverse 2 
1011 = Launch the vehicle in Reverse 3 
1100 = Launch the vehicle in Reverse 4
1101 = Reserved 
1110 = Error 
1111 = Not Available 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 256 
SPN 4261 Transmission Reverse Gear Shift Inhibit Status 
Reflects the status of transmission reverse inhibit activity in response to requests via SPN 4242 - Transmission Reverse 
Gear Shift Inhibit Request. Typically broadcast by the transmission controller. 
00 = Reverse gear shifts are currently allowed 
01 = Reverse gear shifts are currently inhibited 
10 = Error 
11 = Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65098 
SPN 4287 Engine Exhaust Valve Actuation System Oil Pressure 
The absolute pressure of the oil in the hydraulic system that powers the engine exhaust valve actuation system 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1/256 MPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 251 MPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64961 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 609 -
SPN 4288 Engine Exhaust Valve Actuation System Oil Temperature 
The temperature of the oil in the hydraulic system that powers the engine exhaust valve actuation system 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64870 
SPN 4289 Aftertreatment 1 Three Way Catalytic Converter Intake Gas Temperature 
Temperature of engine combustion byproducts entering the Three Way Catalytic Converter in exhaust bank 1. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64838 
SPN 4290 Aftertreatment 1 Three Way Catalytic Converter Outlet Gas Temperature 
Temperature of engine combustion byproducts leaving the Three Way Catalytic Converter in exhaust bank 1. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64838 
SPN 4291 Aftertreatment 1 Three Way Catalytic Converter Differential Pressure 
Exhaust differential pressure measured between the intake and exhaust of a Three Way Catalytic Converter in exhaust 
bank 1. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6,425.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64838 
SPN 4292 Aftertreatment 1 Three Way Catalytic Converter Intake Gas Temperature Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI detected in the Three Way Catalytic Converter intake gas temperature 
sensor by the manufacturer’s sensor control software in exhaust bank 1. When there is no failure FMI 31 is sent. In the 
case of multiple failures the most severe is communicated. 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: Binary, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64838 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 610 -
SPN 4293 Aftertreatment 1 Three Way Catalytic Converter Outlet Gas Temperature Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI detected in the Three Way Catalytic Converter outlet gas temperature 
sensor by the manufacturer’s sensor control software in exhaust bank 1. When there is no failure FMI 31 is sent. In the 
case of multiple failures the most severe is communicated. 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: Binary, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64838 
SPN 4294 Aftertreatment 1 Three Way Catalytic Converter Differential Pressure Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI detected in the Three Way Catalytic Converter differential pressure sensor 
by the manufacturer’s sensor control software in exhaust bank 1. When there is no failure FMI 31 is sent. In the case of 
multiple failures the most severe is communicated. 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: Binary, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64838 
SPN 4295 Aftertreatment 2 Three Way Catalytic Converter Intake Gas Temperature 
Temperature of engine combustion byproducts entering the Three Way Catalytic Converter in exhaust bank 2. 
(For a single exhaust bank system, refer to parameters in PGN AT1TWCC.) 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64837 
SPN 4296 Aftertreatment 2 Three Way Catalytic Converter Outlet Gas Temperature 
Temperature of engine combustion byproducts leaving the Three Way Catalytic Converter in exhaust bank 2.
(For a single exhaust bank system, refer to parameters in PGN AT1TWCC.) 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64837 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 611 -
SPN 4297 Aftertreatment 2 Three Way Catalytic Converter Differential Pressure 
Exhaust differential pressure measured between the intake and exhaust of a Three Way Catalytic Converter in exhaust 
bank 2. 
(For a single exhaust bank system, refer to parameters in PGN AT1TWCC.) 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6,425.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64837 
SPN 4298 Aftertreatment 2 Three Way Catalytic Converter Intake Gas Temperature Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI detected in the Three Way Catalytic Converter intake gas temperature 
sensor by the manufacturer’s sensor control software in exhaust bank 2. When there is no failure FMI 31 is sent. In the 
case of multiple failures the most severe is communicated. 
(For a single exhaust bank system, refer to parameters in PGN AT1TWCC.) 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: Binary, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64837 
SPN 4299 Aftertreatment 2 Three Way Catalytic Converter Outlet Gas Temperature Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI detected in the Three Way Catalytic Converter outlet gas temperature 
sensor by the manufacturer’s sensor control software in exhaust bank 2. When there is no failure FMI 31 is sent. In the 
case of multiple failures the most severe is communicated. 
(For a single exhaust bank system, refer to parameters in PGN AT1TWCC.) 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: Binary, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64837 
SPN 4300 Aftertreatment 2 Three Way Catalytic Converter Differential Pressure Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI detected in the Three Way Catalytic Converter differential pressure sensor 
by the manufacturer’s sensor control software in exhaust bank 2. When there is no failure FMI 31 is sent. In the case of 
multiple failures the most severe is communicated. 
(For a single exhaust bank system, refer to parameters in PGN AT1TWCC.) 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: Binary, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64837 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 612 -
SPN 4301 Aftertreatment 1 Fuel Injector 1 Heater Control 
Heating level that the controller is commanding the aftertreatment 1 fuel injector 1 heater control to maintain. 0% = off, 
100% = maximum. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64929 
SPN 4302 Aftertreatment 2 Fuel Injector 1 Heater Control 
Heating level that the controller is commanding the aftertreatment 2 fuel injector 1 heater control to maintain. 0% = off, 
100% = maximum. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64928 
SPN 4303 Aftertreatment 2 Fuel Pressure 2 
Second fuel pressure measurement for the aftertreatment 2 system. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6,425.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64836 
SPN 4304 ECU Manufacturer Name 
The name of the manufacturer of the physical ECU. 
This name may be different than the manufacturer identified by the Manufacturer Code (SPN 2838) and listed in table B10 
of J1939. 
Data Length: Variable - up to 200 bytes followed by an "*" delimiter 
Resolution: ASCII, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 255 per byte Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64965 
(R) SPN 4331 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Actual Dosing Quantity 
Quantity of diesel exhaust fluid injected in the aftertreatment 1 system. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.3 g/h per bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 19276.5 g/h Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61475 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 613 -
SPN 4332 Aftertreatment 1 SCR System State 
Actual state of SCR system 
0000 Dormant (sleep mode) 
0001 Preparing dosing readiness (wake up; prepare to operate; wait for start) 
0010 Normal dosing operation 
0011 System error pending 
0100 Reserved for future assignment by SAE 
0101 Protect mode against heat (pressure buildup) 
0110 Protect mode against cold (defreeze) 
0111 Shutoff (wait for afterrun) 
1000 Diagnosis (afterrun) 
1001 Service test mode, dosing allowed
1010 Service test mode, dosing not allowed 
1011-1101 Reserved for future assignment by SAE 
1110 Error 
1111 Not available 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61475 
(R) SPN 4333 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Actual Quantity of Integrator 
The requested diesel exhaust fluid integrator total quantity for aftertreatment system 1 (exhaust bank 1). 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.10 g/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 g Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 1761 
PGN reference: 61475 
(R) SPN 4334 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Doser Absolute Pressure 
The diesel exhaust fluid doser absolute pressure (measured closest to the dosing valve) for aftertreatment system 1 
(exhaust bank 1). 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 8 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 2,000 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 1761 
PGN reference: 61475 
SPN 4335 Aftertreatment 1 SCR Dosing Air Assist Absolute Pressure 
The SCR dosing system air assist absolute pressure for aftertreatment system 1 (exhaust bank 1). The air assist system 
is used to improve the dosed reagent atomization. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 8 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 2,000 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 1761 
PGN reference: 64833 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 614 -
SPN 4336 Aftertreatment 1 SCR Dosing Air Assist Valve 
The position of the valve used to regulate the air supply of an air assist SCR dosing system for an engine. 0% represents 
no supply and 100% is full supply. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 1761 
PGN reference: 64833 
(R) SPN 4337 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Dosing Temperature 
The diesel exhaust fluid dosing temperature (measured closest to dosing valve) for aftertreatment system 1 (exhaust 
bank 1). 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 deg C/bit, -40 deg C offset 
Data Range: -40 to 210 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 1761 
PGN reference: 64833 
SPN 4338 Aftertreatment 1 SCR Dosing Valve Exhaust Temperature Reduction Request 
Protection request for the dosing valve of the SCR-system to prevent overheating 
 000: no request
 001: reduction request stage 1 
 010: reduction request stage 2 
 011: reserved for future assignment by SAE 
 100: reserved for future assignment by SAE 
 101: reserved for future assignment by SAE 
 110: error 
 111: not available 
Data Length: 3 bits 
Resolution: 8 states/3 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 7 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64833 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 615 -
SPN 4339 Aftertreatment 1 SCR Feedback Control Status 
The SCR feedback control status (open/closed loop) for aftertreatment system 1 (exhaust bank 1). 
000 open loop control active
001 closed loop control active
010 reserved for future assignment by SAE
011 reserved for future assignment by SAE
100 reserved for future assignment by SAE
101 reserved for future assignment by SAE
110 error
111 not available 
Data Length: 3 bits 
Resolution: 8 states/3 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 7 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64833 
(R) SPN 4340 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Line Heater 1 State 
The diesel exhaust fluid line heater 1 state for aftertreatment system 1 (exhaust bank 1).
00 heater inactive
01 heater active
10 error
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 1761 
PGN reference: 64833 
(R) SPN 4341 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Line Heater 1 Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI detected in the diesel exhaust fluid line heater 1, by the manufacturer’s 
control software in exhaust bank 1. When there is no failure FMI 31 is sent. In the case of multiple failures the most 
severe is communicated. 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: Binary, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64833 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 616 -
(R) SPN 4342 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Line Heater 2 State 
The diesel exhaust fluid line heater 2 state for aftertreatment system 1 (exhaust bank 1).
00 heater inactive
01 heater active
10 error
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 1761 
PGN reference: 64833 
(R) SPN 4343 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Line Heater 2 Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI detected in the diesel exhaust fluid line heater 2, by the manufacturer’s 
control software in exhaust bank 1. When there is no failure FMI 31 is sent. In the case of multiple failures the most 
severe is communicated. 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: Binary, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64833 
(R) SPN 4344 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Line Heater 3 State 
The diesel exhaust fluid line heater 3 state for aftertreatment system 1 (exhaust bank 1).
00 heater inactive
01 heater active
10 error
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 1761 
PGN reference: 64833 
(R) SPN 4345 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Line Heater 3 Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI detected in the diesel exhaust fluid line heater 3, by the manufacturer’s 
control software in exhaust bank 1. When there is no failure FMI 31 is sent. In the case of multiple failures the most 
severe is communicated. 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: Binary, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64833 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 617 -
(R) SPN 4346 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Line Heater 4 State 
The diesel exhaust fluid line heater 4 state for aftertreatment system 1 (exhaust bank 1).
00 heater inactive
01 heater active
10 error
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 1761 
PGN reference: 64833 
(R) SPN 4347 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Line Heater 4 Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI detected in the diesel exhaust fluid line heater 4, by the manufacturer’s 
control software in exhaust bank 1. When there is no failure FMI 31 is sent. In the case of multiple failures the most 
severe is communicated. 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: Binary, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64833 
(R) SPN 4348 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Dosing Requested Quantity 
Actual requested dosing quantity of diesel exhaust fluid. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.3 g/h per bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 19276.5 g/h Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61476 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 618 -
SPN 4349 Aftertreatment 1 SCR System Requested State 
Requested state of SCR system for aftertreatment system 1 (exhaust bank 1). 
0000 Dormant (sleep mode)
0001 Preparing dosing readiness (wake up; prepare to operate; wait for start)
0010 Normal dosing operation
0011 System error pending
0100 Reserved for future assignment by SAE
0101 Protect mode against heat (pressure buildup)
0110 Protect mode against cold (defreeze)
0111 Shutoff (wait for afterrun)
1000 Diagnosis (afterrun)
1001 Service test mode, dosing allowed
1010 Service test mode, dosing not allowed 
1011-1101 Reserved for future assignment by SAE 
1110 Error 
1111 Not available 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61476 
(R) SPN 4350 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Requested Quantity of Integrator 
Represents the command for the diesel exhaust fluid quantity integrator in the dosing control unit 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.10 g/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 g Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 1761 
PGN reference: 61476 
(R) SPN 4352 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Doser Fault Suppression Request 
Used if external devices can warn of conditions that require suppression of potential faults in the doser due to 
environmental conditions. 
00 Error suppression off 
01 Error suppression on 
10 Reserved 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64832 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 619 -
(R) SPN 4353 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Doser Heating Mode Request 
Indicates which heating mode is requested for the aftertreatment 1 diesel exhaust fluid doser.
000 Heater off 
001 Heater economy mode 
010 Heater automatic mode 
011 Heater on 
100 - 110 Reserved 
111 Not available 
Data Length: 3 bits 
Resolution: 8 states/3 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 7 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64832 
(R) SPN 4354 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Line Heater 1 Request 
The diesel exhaust fluid line heater 1 request for aftertreatment system 1 (exhaust bank 1). 
00 request for heater to be inactive
01 request for heater to be active
10 reserved for future assignment by SAE 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 1761 
PGN reference: 64832 
(R) SPN 4355 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Line Heater 2 Request 
The diesel exhaust fluid line heater 2 request for aftertreatment system 1 (exhaust bank 1). 
00 request for heater to be inactive
01 request for heater to be active
10 reserved for future assignment by SAE 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 1761 
PGN reference: 64832 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 620 -
(R) SPN 4356 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Line Heater 3 Request 
The diesel exhaust fluid line heater 3 request for aftertreatment system 1 (exhaust bank 1). 
00 request for heater to be inactive
01 request for heater to be active
10 reserved for future assignment by SAE 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 1761 
PGN reference: 64832 
(R) SPN 4357 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Line Heater 4 Request 
The diesel exhaust fluid line heater 4 request for aftertreatment system 1 (exhaust bank 1). 
00 request for heater to be inactive
01 request for heater to be active
10 reserved for future assignment by SAE 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 1761 
PGN reference: 64832 
(R) SPN 4358 Aftertreatment 1 SCR Exhaust Gas Differential Pressure 
Exhaust differential pressure measured between the intake and exhaust of an SCR component in exhaust bank 1. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6,425.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 1761 
PGN reference: 64831 
(R) SPN 4359 Aftertreatment 1 SCR Exhaust Gas Differential Pressure Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI detected in the SCR differential pressure sensor by the manufacturer’s 
sensor control software in exhaust bank 1. When there is no failure FMI 31 is sent. In the case of multiple failures the 
most severe is communicated. 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: 32 states/5 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64831 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 621 -
SPN 4360 Aftertreatment 1 SCR Catalyst Intake Gas Temperature 
Temperature of engine combustion byproducts entering the SCR catalyst in exhaust bank 1. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 1761 
PGN reference: 64830 
SPN 4361 Aftertreatment 1 SCR Catalyst Intake Gas Temperature Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI detected in the SCR catalyst intake gas temperature sensor by the 
manufacturer’s sensor control software in exhaust bank 1. When there is no failure FMI 31 is sent. In the case of multiple 
failures the most severe is communicated. 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: 32 states/5 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64830 
SPN 4362 Aftertreatment 1 SCR Catalyst Outlet Gas Temperature Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI detected in the SCR catalyst outlet gas temperature sensor by the 
manufacturer’s sensor control software in exhaust bank 1. When there is no failure FMI 31 is sent. In the case of multiple 
failures the most severe is communicated. 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: 32 states/5 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64830 
SPN 4363 Aftertreatment 1 SCR Catalyst Outlet Gas Temperature 
Temperature of engine combustion byproducts leaving the SCR catalyst exhaust in exhaust bank 1. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 1761 
PGN reference: 64830 
(R) SPN 4364 Aftertreatment 1 SCR Conversion Efficiency 
The SCR conversion efficiency percentage. Calculated as 100 times the catalyst intake NOx minus the catalyst outlet 
NOx divided by the catalyst intake NOx. The catalyst conversion efficiency number in itself does not imply emissions 
compliance or system function or system malfunction. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64878 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 622 -
(R) SPN 4365 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 1 Temperature Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI detected in the diesel exhaust fluid tank 1 temperature, by the 
manufacturer’s control software in exhaust bank 1. When there is no failure FMI 31 is sent. In the case of multiple failures 
the most severe is communicated. 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: Binary, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65110 
(R) SPN 4366 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 1 Heater Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI detected in the SCR catalyst reagent tank 1 heater, by the manufacturer’s 
control software in exhaust bank 1. When there is no failure FMI 31 is sent. In the case of multiple failures the most 
severe is communicated. 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: Binary, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65110 
(R) SPN 4367 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 2 Level 
The diesel exhaust fluid tank 2 level percentage for aftertreatment system 1 (exhaust bank 1). 0% is empty and 100% is 
full. Tank 2 is used as a quick thaw diesel exhaust fluid tank. 
See SPN 4369 for alternate SLOT. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 1761 
PGN reference: 64829 
(R) SPN 4368 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 2 Temperature 
The diesel exhaust fluid tank 2 temperature for aftertreatment system 1 (exhaust bank 1). Tank 2 is used as a quick thaw 
diesel exhaust fluid tank. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 deg C/bit, -40 deg C offset 
Data Range: -40 to 210 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 1761 
PGN reference: 64829 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 623 -
(R) SPN 4369 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 2 Level 2 
The diesel exhaust fluid tank 2 level height in mm for aftertreatment system 1 (exhaust bank 1). Tank 2 is used as a quick 
thaw diesel exhaust fluid tank. 
See SPN 4367 for alternate SLOT. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 mm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6,425.5 mm (0 to 6.4255 m) Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 1761 
PGN reference: 64829 
(R) SPN 4370 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 2 Level Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI detected in the diesel exhaust fluid tank 2 level, by the manufacturer’s 
control software in exhaust bank 1. When there is no failure FMI 31 is sent. In the case of multiple failures the most 
severe is communicated. 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: Binary, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64829 
(R) SPN 4371 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 2 Temperature Prelminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI detected in the diesel exhaust fluid tank 2 temperature, by the 
manufacturer’s control software in exhaust bank 1. When there is no failure FMI 31 is sent. In the case of multiple failures 
the most severe is communicated. 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: Binary, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64829 
(R) SPN 4372 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 2 Heater 
The diesel exhaust fluid tank 2 heater percentage for aftertreatment system 1 (exhaust bank 1). 0% is off. See SPN 
5414 for the command for this tank heater. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 1761 
PGN reference: 64829 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 624 -
(R) SPN 4373 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 2 Heater Prelminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI detected in the diesel exhaust fluid tank 2 heater, by the manufacturer’s 
control software in exhaust bank 1. When there is no failure FMI 31 is sent. In the case of multiple failures the most 
severe is communicated. 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: Binary, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64829 
(R) SPN 4374 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Pump Motor Speed 
Rotational speed of the motor driving a pump for diesel exhaust fluid used in an aftertreatment system. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.5 rpm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 32,127.5 rpm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 1761 
PGN reference: 64828 
(R) SPN 4375 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Pump Drive Percentage 
The percent (command) sent to the motor to control the speed of the diesel exhaust fluid pump. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 1761 
PGN reference: 64828 
(R) SPN 4376 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Return Valve 
Command to the valve which determines whether the diesel exhaust fluid is delivered to the injector or is routed back to 
the diesel exhaust fluid tank. Zero directs all diesel exhaust fluid flow to the injector, 100% sends all diesel exhaust fluid
back to the tank. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 1761 
PGN reference: 64828 
(R) SPN 4377 Aftertreatment 1 Outlet NH3 
The amount of NH3 in the exhaust exiting the aftertreatment system measured by a NH3 sensor at the aftertreatment 
outlet, represented in NH3 molecule parts per million non-NH3 molecules in exhaust bank 1. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.05 ppm/bit, -200 ppm offset 
Data Range: -200 to 3012.75 ppm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61477 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 625 -
SPN 4378 Aftertreatment 1 Outlet NH3 Sensor Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI detected in the aftertreatment outlet NH3 sensor by the manufacturer’s 
sensor control software in exhaust bank 1. When there is no failure FMI 31 is sent. In the case of multiple failures the 
most severe is communicated. 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: Binary, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61477 
(R) SPN 4379 Aftertreatment 1 Outlet NH3 Reading Stable 
Indicates that the NH3 reading of the aftertreatment outlet NH3 sensor is stable as determined by the manufacturer’s 
control software in exhaust bank 1. 
00 - Reading is not stable 
01 - Reading is stable 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61477 
(R) SPN 4380 Aftertreatment 1 Outlet NH3 Gas Sensor Power In Range 
Indicates that the power supplied to the aftertreatment outlet NH3 gas sensor is within the manufacturer’s specification in 
exhaust bank 1. 
00 - Power is not in range 
01 - Power is in range 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61477 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 626 -
(R) SPN 4381 Aftertreatment 1 Outlet NH3 Gas Sensor at Temperature 
Indicates that the heater element of the aftertreatment outlet NH3 gas sensor is within the manufacturer’s specified range 
for accurate measurements in exhaust bank 1. 
00 - Heater element is not in range 
01 - Heater element is in range 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61477 
SPN 4382 Aftertreatment 1 Outlet NH3 Gas Sensor Heater Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI detected in the heater of the outlet NH3 exhaust gas sensor by the 
manufacturer’s sensor control software in exhaust bank 1. When there is no failure FMI 31 is sent. In the case of multiple 
failures the most severe is communicated. 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: Binary, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61477 
SPN 4383 Aftertreatment 1 Outlet NH3 Gas Sensor Heater Control 
Indicates the heater status in the warm-up process. Upon receiving a power-up command, the NH3 gas sensor ramps up 
according to a manufacturer defined profile. The Preheat 1, Preheat 2, and Automatic messages are regions within this 
profile in exhaust bank 1.
00 - Automatic 
01 - Preheat 2
10 - Preheat 1
11 - Heater off or not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61477 
(R) SPN 4384 Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Actual Dosing Quantity 
Actual reducing agent quantity of SCR system. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.3 g/h per bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 19276.5 g/h Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61478 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 627 -
SPN 4385 Aftertreatment 2 SCR System State 
Actual state of SCR system 
0000 Dormant (sleep mode) 
0001 Preparing dosing readiness (wake up; prepare to operate; wait for start) 
0010 Normal dosing operation 
0011 System error pending 
0100 Reserved for future assignment by SAE 
0101 Protect mode against heat (pressure buildup)
0110 Protect mode against cold (defreeze)
0111 Shutoff (wait for afterrun)
1000 Diagnosis (afterrun) 
1001 Service test mode, dosing allowed
1010 Service test mode, dosing not allowed 
1011-1101 Reserved for future assignment by SAE 
1110 Error 
1111 Not available 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61478 
(R) SPN 4386 Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Actual Quantity of Integrator 
The requested diesel exhaust fluid integrator total quantity for aftertreatment system 2 (exhaust bank 2). 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.10 g/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 g Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61478 
(R) SPN 4387 Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Dosing Absolute Pressure 
The SCR dosing diesel exhaust fluid absolute pressure (measured closest to dosing valve) for aftertreatment system 2 
(exhaust bank 2). 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 8 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 2,000 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61478 
SPN 4388 Aftertreatment 2 SCR Dosing Air Assist Absolute Pressure 
The SCR dosing system air assist absolute pressure for aftertreatment system 2 (exhaust bank 2). The air assist system 
is used to improve the dosed reagent atomization. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 8 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 2,000 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64827 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 628 -
SPN 4389 Aftertreatment 2 SCR Dosing Air Assist Valve 
The position of the valve used to regulate the air supply of an air assist SCR dosing system for an engine. 0% represents 
no supply and 100% is full supply. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64827 
(R) SPN 4390 Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Dosing Temperature 
The diesel exhaust fluid dosing temperature (measured closest to dosing valve) for aftertreatment system 2 (exhaust 
bank 2). 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 deg C/bit, -40 deg C offset 
Data Range: -40 to 210 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64827 
SPN 4391 Aftertreatment 2 SCR Dosing Valve Exhaust Temp. Reduction Request 
Protection request for the dosing valve of the SCR-system to prevent overheating 
 000: no request
 001: reduction request stage 1 
 010: reduction request stage 2 
 011: reserved for future assignment by SAE 
 100: reserved for future assignment by SAE 
 101: reserved for future assignment by SAE 
 110: error 
 111: not available 
Data Length: 3 bits 
Resolution: 8 states/3 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 7 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64827 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 629 -
SPN 4392 Aftertreatment 2 SCR Feedback Control Status 
The SCR feedback control status (open/closed loop) for aftertreatment system 2 (exhaust bank 2). 
000 open loop control active
001 closed loop control active
010 reserved for future assignment by SAE
011 reserved for future assignment by SAE
100 reserved for future assignment by SAE
101 reserved for future assignment by SAE
110 error
111 not available 
Data Length: 3 bits 
Resolution: 8 states/3 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 7 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64827 
(R) SPN 4393 Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Line Heater 1 State 
The diesel exhaust fluid line heater 1 state for aftertreatment system 2 (exhaust bank 2). 
00 heater inactive
01 heater active
10 error
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64827 
(R) SPN 4394 Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Line Heater 1 Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI detected in the diesel exhaust fluid line heater 1, by the manufacturer’s 
control software in exhaust bank 2. When there is no failure FMI 31 is sent. In the case of multiple failures the most 
severe is communicated. 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: Binary, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64827 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 630 -
(R) SPN 4395 Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Line Heater 2 State 
The diesel exhaust fluid line heater 2 state for aftertreatment system 2 (exhaust bank 2). 
00 heater inactive
01 heater active
10 error
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64827 
(R) SPN 4396 Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Line Heater 2 Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI detected in the diesel exhaust fluid line heater 2, by the manufacturer’s 
control software in exhaust bank 2. When there is no failure FMI 31 is sent. In the case of multiple failures the most 
severe is communicated. 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: Binary, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64827 
(R) SPN 4397 Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Line Heater 3 State 
The diesel exhaust fluid line heater 3 state for aftertreatment system 2 (exhaust bank 2). 
00 heater inactive
01 heater active
10 error
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64827 
(R) SPN 4398 Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Line Heater 3 Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI detected in the diesel exhaust fluid line heater 3, by the manufacturer’s 
control software in exhaust bank 2. When there is no failure FMI 31 is sent. In the case of multiple failures the most 
severe is communicated. 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: Binary, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64827 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 631 -
(R) SPN 4399 Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Line Heater 4 State 
The diesel exhaust fluid line heater 4 state for aftertreatment system 2 (exhaust bank 2). 
00 heater inactive
01 heater active
10 error
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64827 
(R) SPN 4400 Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Line Heater 4 Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI detected in the diesel exhaust fluid line heater 4, by the manufacturer’s 
control software in exhaust bank 2. When there is no failure FMI 31 is sent. In the case of multiple failures the most 
severe is communicated. 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: Binary, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64827 
(R) SPN 4401 Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Dosing Requested Quantity 
Actual requested dosing quantity of diesel exhaust fluid. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.3 g/h per bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 19276.5 g/h Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61479 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 632 -
SPN 4402 Aftertreatment 2 SCR System Requested State 
Requested state of SCR system for aftertreatment system 2 (exhaust bank 2). 
0000 Dormant (sleep mode)
0001 Preparing dosing readiness (wake up; prepare to operate; wait for start)
0010 Normal dosing operation
0011 System error pending
0100 Reserved for future assignment by SAE
0101 Protect mode against heat (pressure buildup)
0110 Protect mode against cold (defreeze)
0111 Shutoff (wait for afterrun)
1000 Diagnosis (afterrun) 
1001 Service test mode, dosing allowed
1010 Service test mode, dosing not allowed 
1011-1101 Reserved for future assignment by SAE 
1110 Error 
1111 Not available 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61479 
(R) SPN 4403 Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Requested Quantity of Integrator 
Represents the command for the diesel exhaust fluid quantity integrator in the dosing control unit 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.10 g/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 g Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61479 
(R) SPN 4405 Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Doser Fault Suppression Request 
Used if external devices can warn of conditions that require suppression of potential faults in the doser due to 
environmental conditions. 
00 Error suppression off 
01 Error suppression on 
10 Reserved 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64826 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 633 -
(R) SPN 4406 Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Doser Heating Mode Request 
Indicates which heating mode is requested for the aftertreatment 2 diesel exhaust fluid doser.
000 Heater off 
001 Heater economy mode 
010 Heater automatic mode 
011 Heater on 
100 - 110 Reserved 
111 Not available 
Data Length: 3 bits 
Resolution: 8 states/3 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 7 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64826 
(R) SPN 4407 Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Line Heater 1 
The diesel exhaust fluid line heater 1 request for aftertreatment system 2 (exhaust bank 2).
00 request for heater to be inactive
01 request for heater to be active
10 reserved for future assignment by SAE 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64826 
(R) SPN 4408 Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Line Heater 2 
The diesel exhaust fluid line heater 2 request for aftertreatment system 2 (exhaust bank 2).
00 request for heater to be inactive
01 request for heater to be active
10 reserved for future assignment by SAE 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64826 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 634 -
(R) SPN 4409 Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Line Heater 3 
The diesel exhaust fluid line heater 3 request for aftertreatment system 2 (exhaust bank 2).
00 request for heater to be inactive
01 request for heater to be active
10 reserved for future assignment by SAE 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64826 
(R) SPN 4410 Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Line Heater 4 
The diesel exhaust fluid line heater 4 request for aftertreatment system 2 (exhaust bank 2).
00 request for heater to be inactive
01 request for heater to be active
10 reserved for future assignment by SAE 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64826 
(R) SPN 4411 Aftertreatment 2 SCR Exhaust Gas Differential Pressure 
Exhaust differential pressure measured between the intake and exhaust of an SCR component in exhaust bank 2. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6,425.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64825 
(R) SPN 4412 Aftertreatment 2 SCR Exhaust Gas Differential Pressure Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI detected in the SCR differential pressure sensor by the manufacturer’s 
sensor control software in exhaust bank 2. When there is no failure FMI 31 is sent. In the case of multiple failures the 
most severe is communicated. 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: 32 states/5 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64825 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 635 -
SPN 4413 Aftertreatment 2 SCR Catalyst Intake Gas Temperature 
Temperature of engine combustion byproducts entering the SCR catalyst in exhaust bank 2. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64824 
SPN 4414 Aftertreatment 2 SCR Catalyst Intake Gas Temperature Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI detected in the SCR catalyst intake gas temperature sensor by the 
manufacturer’s sensor control software in exhaust bank 2. When there is no failure FMI 31 is sent. In the case of multiple 
failures the most severe is communicated. 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: 32 states/5 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64824 
SPN 4415 Aftertreatment 2 SCR Catalyst Outlet Gas Temperature 
Temperature of engine combustion byproducts leaving the SCR catalyst exhaust in exhaust bank 2. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64824 
SPN 4416 Aftertreatment 2 SCR Catalyst Outlet Gas Temperature Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI detected in the SCR catalyst outlet gas temperature sensor by the 
manufacturer’s sensor control software in exhaust bank 2. When there is no failure FMI 31 is sent. In the case of multiple 
failures the most severe is communicated. 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: 32 states/5 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64824 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 636 -
(R) SPN 4417 Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Average Consumption 
Measured use of diesel exhaust fluid by a Selective Catalytic Reduction system for exhaust emission control, averaged 
over the previous 15 hours of engine operation. 
Used to determine whether the SCR system is using an appropriate amount of diesel exhaust fluid, by comparing with the 
Aftertreatment 2 Commanded Diesel Exhaust Fluid Consumption parameter (SPN 4418). 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.05 L/h per bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3,212.75 L/h Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64823 
(R) SPN 4418 Aftertreatment 2 SCR Commanded Catalyst Diesel Exhaust Fluid Consumption 
This parameter transmits the amount of diesel exhaust fluid that the emissions control system has requested to be used, 
averaged over the past 15 hours of engine operation. 
Used to determine whether the SCR system is using an appropriate amount of diesel exhaust fluid, by comparing with the 
Aftertreatment 2 Average Diesel Exhaust Fluid Consumption parameter (SPN 4417). 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.05 L/h per bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3,212.75 L/h Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64823 
(R) SPN 4419 Aftertreatment 2 SCR Conversion Efficiency 
The SCR conversion efficiency percentage. Calculated as 100 times the catalyst intake NOx minus the catalyst outlet 
NOx divided by the catalyst intake NOx. The catalyst conversion efficiency number in itself does not imply emissions 
compliance or system function or system malfunction. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64823 
(R) SPN 4420 Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Temperature 2 
Temperature of the diesel exhaust fluid at the device measuring diesel exhaust fluid quality 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 deg C/bit, -40 deg C offset 
Data Range: -40 to 210 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64822 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 637 -
(R) SPN 4421 Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Concentration 
A measure of the concentration of urea in water. Zero percent means that the tank contains no urea. A 32.5% value 
indicates that the reagent is of the proper concentration. The 32.5% value indicates that the concentration is highest 
quality.
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.25 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 62.5 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64822 
(R) SPN 4422 Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Conductivity 
A measure of the conductivity of the diesel exhaust fluid at the sensor. The conductivity is an indication of the diesel 
exhaust fluid's chemical make up. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 5 microSiemens/mm, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 1250 microSiemens/mm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64822 
(R) SPN 4423 Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Temperature2 Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI that applies to the most significant failure of the diesel exhaust fluid
temperature sensor. When there is no failure FMI 31 is sent. In the case of multiple failures the most severe is 
communicated.
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: Binary, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64822 
(R) SPN 4424 Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Properties Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI that applies to the most significant failure of the diesel exhaust fluid
properties sensor. This may be used for indicating failures of the diesel exhaust fluid concentration, diesel exhaust fluid 
conductivity or diesel exhaust fluid type. When there is no failure FMI 31 is sent. In the case of multiple failures the most 
severe is communicated. 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: Binary, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64822 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 638 -
(R) SPN 4425 Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Property 
This parameter indicates the property of the fluid compound in the tank. A value of 0011 indicates uncontaminated Diesel 
Exhaust Fluid. 
0000 - Urea concentration too high 
0001 - Urea concentration too low 
0010 - Fluid is diesel 
0011 - Diesel exhaust fluid is proper mixture 
0101 to 1100 - Reserved for SAE assignment 
1101 - Not able to determine diesel exhaust fluid property (fluid type unknown) 
1110 - Error with diesel exhaust fluid property detection 
1111 - Not available 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64822 
(R) SPN 4426 Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 1 Level 
Ratio of volume of diesel exhaust fluid to the total volume of diesel exhaust fluid storage container. 
0 % = Empty 
100% = Full 
See SPN 4428 for alternate SLOT. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64821 
(R) SPN 4427 Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 1 Temperature 
Temperature of the diesel exhaust fluid in the storage tank. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 deg C/bit, -40 deg C offset 
Data Range: -40 to 210 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64821 
(R) SPN 4428 Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 1 Level 2 
The measure of the diesel exhaust fluid level in the diesel exhaust fluid tank. 
See SPN 4426 for alternate SLOT. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 mm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6,425.5 mm (0 to 6.4255 m) Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64821 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 639 -
(R) SPN 4429 Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 1 Level Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI that applies to the most significant failure of the diesel exhaust fluid tank 
level sensor. This FMI is applicable to either the diesel exhaust fluid tank level 1 or diesel exhaust fluid tank level 2 
parameters.
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: Binary, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64821 
(R) SPN 4430 Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 1 Temperature Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI detected in the diesel exhaust fluid tank 1 temperature by the 
manufacturer’s control software in exhaust bank 2. When there is no failure FMI 31 is sent. In the case of multiple failures 
the most severe is communicated. 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: Binary, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64821 
(R) SPN 4431 Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 1 Heater 
Percentage of heating applied to the aftertreatment 2 diesel exhaust fluid tank heater. A value of 0% means no heating 
applied, a value of 100% means full heating applied. The diesel exhaust fluid tank heater warms the diesel exhaust fluid 
in the diesel exhaust fluid tank. See SPN 5138 for the command for this tank heater. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64821 
(R) SPN 4432 Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 1 Heater Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI detected in the diesel exhaust fluid tank 1 heater, by the manufacturer’s 
control software in exhaust bank 2. When there is no failure FMI 31 is sent. In the case of multiple failures the most 
severe is communicated. 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: Binary, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64821 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 640 -
(R) SPN 4433 Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 2 Level 
The diesel exhaust fluid tank 2 level percentage for aftertreatment system 2 (exhaust bank 2). 0% is empty and 100% is 
full. Tank 2 is used as a quick thaw diesel exhaust fluid tank. 
See SPN 4435 for alternate SLOT. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64820 
(R) SPN 4434 Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 2 Temperature 
The diesel exhaust fluid tank 2 temperature for aftertreatment system 2 (exhaust bank 2). Tank 2 is used as a quick thaw 
diesel exhaust fluid tank. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 deg C/bit, -40 deg C offset 
Data Range: -40 to 210 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64820 
(R) SPN 4435 Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 2 Level 2 
The diesel exhaust fluid tank 2 level height in mm for aftertreatment system 2 (exhaust bank 2). Tank 2 is used as a quick 
thaw diesel exhaust fluid tank. 
See SPN 4433 for alternate SLOT. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 mm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6,425.5 mm (0 to 6.4255 m) Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64820 
(R) SPN 4436 Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 2 Level Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI detected in the diesel exhaust fluid tank 2 level, by the manufacturer’s 
control software in exhaust bank 2. When there is no failure FMI 31 is sent. In the case of multiple failures the most 
severe is communicated. 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: Binary, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64820 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 641 -
(R) SPN 4437 Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 2 Temperature Prelminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI detected in the diesel exhaust fluid tank 2 temperature, by the 
manufacturer’s control software in exhaust bank 2. When there is no failure FMI 31 is sent. In the case of multiple failures 
the most severe is communicated. 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: Binary, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64820 
(R) SPN 4438 Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 2 Heater 
The diesel exhaust fluid tank 2 heater percentage for aftertreatment system 1 (exhaust bank 1). 0% is off. See SPN 5415 
for the command for this tank heater. 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64820 
(R) SPN 4439 Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 2 Heater Prelminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI detected in the diesel exhaust fluid tank 2 heater by the manufacturer’s 
control software in exhaust bank 2. When there is no failure FMI 31 is sent. In the case of multiple failures the most 
severe is communicated. 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: Binary, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64820 
(R) SPN 4440 Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Pump Motor Speed 
Rotational speed of the motor driving a pump for diesel exhaust fluid used in a second aftertreatment system. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.5 rpm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 32,127.5 rpm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64819 
(R) SPN 4441 Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Pump Drive Percentage 
The percent (command) sent to the motor to control the speed of the diesel exhaust fluid pump in a second aftertreatment 
system. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64819 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 642 -
(R) SPN 4442 Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Return Valve 
Command to the valve which determines whether the diesel exhaust fluid is delivered to the injector or is routed back to 
the diesel exhaust fluid tank in a second aftertreatment system. Zero directs all diesel exhaust fluid flow to the injector, 
100% sends all diesel exhaust fluid back to the tank. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64819 
(R) SPN 4443 Aftertreatment 2 Outlet NH3 
The amount of NH3 in the exhaust exiting the aftertreatment system measured by a NH3 sensor at the aftertreatment 
outlet, represented in NH3 molecule parts per million non-NH3 molecules in exhaust bank 2. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.05 ppm/bit, -200 ppm offset 
Data Range: -200 to 3012.75 ppm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61480 
SPN 4444 Aftertreatment 2 Outlet NH3 Sensor Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI detected in the aftertreatment outlet NH3 sensor by the manufacturer’s 
sensor control software in exhaust bank 2. When there is no failure FMI 31 is sent. In the case of multiple failures the 
most severe is communicated. 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: Binary, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61480 
(R) SPN 4445 Aftertreatment 2 Outlet NH3 Reading Stable 
Indicates that the NH3 reading of the aftertreatment outlet NH3 sensor is stable as determined by the manufacturer’s 
control software in exhaust bank 2. 
00 - Reading is not stable 
01 - Reading is stable 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61480 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 643 -
(R) SPN 4446 Aftertreatment 2 Outlet NH3 Gas Sensor Power In Range 
Indicates that the power supplied to the aftertreatment outlet NH3 gas sensor is within the manufacturer’s specification in 
exhaust bank 2. 
00 - Heater element is not in range 
01 - Heater element is in range 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61480 
(R) SPN 4447 Aftertreatment 2 Outlet NH3 Gas Sensor at Temperature 
Indicates that the heater element of the aftertreatment outlet NH3 gas sensor is within the manufacturer’s specified range 
for accurate measurements in exhaust bank 2. 
00 - Heater element is not in range 
01 - Heater element is in range 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61480 
SPN 4448 Aftertreatment 2 Outlet NH3 Gas Sensor Heater Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI detected in the heater of the outlet NH3 exhaust gas sensor by the 
manufacturer’s sensor control software in exhaust bank 2. When there is no failure FMI 31 is sent. In the case of multiple 
failures the most severe is communicated. 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: Binary, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61480 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 644 -
SPN 4449 Aftertreatment 2 Outlet NH3 Gas Sensor Heater Control 
Indicates the heater status in the warm-up process. Upon receiving a power-up command, the NH3 gas sensor ramps up 
according to a manufacturer defined profile. The Preheat 1, Preheat 2, and Automatic messages are regions within this 
profile in exhaust bank 1. 
00 - Automatic 
01 - Preheat 2
10 - Preheat 1
11 - Heater off or Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61480 
SPN 4454 Retract Status of ramp 4 
Retract status of ramp at doorway 4, counting from front to back on the vehicle. 
00 ramp retracted 
01 ramp extended 
10 error 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64880 
SPN 4455 Enable status of ramp 4 
Enable status of ramp at doorway 4, counting from front to back on the vehicle. 
00 ramp disabled 
01 ramp enabled
10 error
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64880 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 645 -
SPN 4456 Movement status of ramp 4 
Movement status of ramp at doorway 4, counting from front to back on the vehicle. 
00 ramp not being moved 
01 ramp being moved 
10 error 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64880 
SPN 4457 Retract Status of ramp 5 
Retract status of ramp at doorway 5, counting from front to back on the vehicle. 
00 ramp retracted 
01 ramp extended 
10 error 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64880 
SPN 4458 Enable status of ramp 5 
Enable status of ramp at doorway 5, counting from front to back on the vehicle. 
00 ramp disabled 
01 ramp enabled
10 error
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64880 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 646 -
SPN 4459 Movement status of ramp 5 
Movement status of ramp at doorway 5, counting from front to back on the vehicle. 
00 ramp not being moved 
01 ramp being moved 
10 error 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64880 
SPN 4460 Joystick 1 Lamp 1 Command 
Tells joystick 1 to switch on/off/blinking lamp 1. 
00 - Off 
01 - On 
10 - Blinking 
11 - Not available or not installed 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 39168 
SPN 4461 Joystick 1 Lamp 2 Command 
Tells joystick 1 to switch on/off/blinking lamp 2. 
00 - Off 
01 - On 
10 - Blinking 
11 - Not available or not installed 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 39168 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 647 -
SPN 4462 Joystick 1 Lamp 3 Command 
Tells joystick 1 to switch on/off/blinking lamp 3. 
00 - Off 
01 - On 
10 - Blinking 
11 - Not available or not installed 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 39168 
SPN 4463 Joystick 1 Lamp 4 Command 
Tells joystick 1 to switch on/off/blinking lamp 4. 
00 - Off 
01 - On 
10 - Blinking 
11 - Not available or not installed 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 39168 
SPN 4464 Joystick 1 Lamp 5 Command 
Tells joystick 1 to switch on/off/blinking lamp 5. 
00 - Off 
01 - On 
10 - Blinking 
11 - Not available or not installed 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 39168 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 648 -
SPN 4465 Joystick 1 Lamp 6 Command 
Tells joystick 1 to switch on/off/blinking lamp 6. 
00 - Off 
01 - On 
10 - Blinking 
11 - Not available or not installed 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 39168 
SPN 4466 Joystick 1 Lamp 7 Command 
Tells joystick 1 to switch on/off/blinking lamp 7. 
00 - Off 
01 - On 
10 - Blinking 
11 - Not available or not installed 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 39168 
SPN 4467 Joystick 1 Lamp 8 Command 
Tells joystick 1 to switch on/off/blinking lamp 8. 
00 - Off 
01 - On 
10 - Blinking 
11 - Not available or not installed 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 39168 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 649 -
SPN 4468 Joystick 1 Lamp 9 Command 
Tells joystick 1 to switch on/off/blinking lamp 9. 
00 - Off 
01 - On 
10 - Blinking 
11 - Not available or not installed 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 39168 
SPN 4469 Joystick 1 Lamp 10 Command 
Tells joystick 1 to switch on/off/blinking lamp 10. 
00 - Off 
01 - On 
10 - Blinking 
11 - Not available or not installed 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 39168 
SPN 4470 Joystick 2 Lamp 1 Command 
Tells joystick 2 to switch on/off/blinking lamp 1. 
00 - Off 
01 - On 
10 - Blinking 
11 - Not available or not installed 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 39168 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 650 -
SPN 4471 Joystick 2 Lamp 2 Command 
Tells joystick 2 to switch on/off/blinking lamp 2. 
00 - Off 
01 - On 
10 - Blinking 
11 - Not available or not installed 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 39168 
SPN 4472 Joystick 2 Lamp 3 Command 
Tells joystick 2 to switch on/off/blinking lamp 3. 
00 - Off 
01 - On 
10 - Blinking 
11 - Not available or not installed 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 39168 
SPN 4473 Joystick 2 Lamp 4 Command 
Tells joystick 2 to switch on/off/blinking lamp 4. 
00 - Off 
01 - On 
10 - Blinking 
11 - Not available or not installed 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 39168 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 651 -
SPN 4474 Joystick 2 Lamp 5 Command 
Tells joystick 2 to switch on/off/blinking lamp 5. 
00 - Off 
01 - On 
10 - Blinking 
11 - Not available or not installed 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 39168 
SPN 4475 Joystick 2 Lamp 6 Command 
Tells joystick 2 to switch on/off/blinking lamp 6. 
00 - Off 
01 - On 
10 - Blinking 
11 - Not available or not installed 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 39168 
SPN 4476 Joystick 2 Lamp 7 Command 
Tells joystick 2 to switch on/off/blinking lamp 7. 
00 - Off 
01 - On 
10 - Blinking 
11 - Not available or not installed 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 39168 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 652 -
SPN 4477 Joystick 2 Lamp 8 Command 
Tells joystick 2 to switch on/off/blinking lamp 8. 
00 - Off 
01 - On 
10 - Blinking 
11 - Not available or not installed 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 39168 
SPN 4478 Joystick 2 Lamp 9 Command 
Tells joystick 2 to switch on/off/blinking lamp 9. 
00 - Off 
01 - On 
10 - Blinking 
11 - Not available or not installed 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 39168 
SPN 4479 Joystick 2 Lamp 10 Command 
Tells joystick 2 to switch on/off/blinking lamp 10. 
00 - Off 
01 - On 
10 - Blinking 
11 - Not available or not installed 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 39168 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 653 -
SPN 4480 Joystick 3 Lamp 1 Command 
Tells joystick 3 to switch on/off/blinking lamp 1. 
00 - Off 
01 - On 
10 - Blinking 
11 - Not available or not installed 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 39168 
SPN 4481 Joystick 3 Lamp 2 Command 
Tells joystick 3 to switch on/off/blinking lamp 2. 
00 - Off 
01 - On 
10 - Blinking 
11 - Not available or not installed 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 39168 
SPN 4482 Joystick 3 Lamp 3 Command 
Tells joystick 3 to switch on/off/blinking lamp 3. 
00 - Off 
01 - On 
10 - Blinking 
11 - Not available or not installed 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 39168 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 654 -
SPN 4483 Joystick 3 Lamp 4 Command 
Tells joystick 3 to switch on/off/blinking lamp 4. 
00 - Off 
01 - On 
10 - Blinking 
11 - Not available or not installed 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 39168 
SPN 4484 Joystick 3 Lamp 5 Command 
Tells joystick 3 to switch on/off/blinking lamp 5. 
00 - Off 
01 - On 
10 - Blinking 
11 - Not available or not installed 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 39168 
SPN 4485 Joystick 3 Lamp 6 Command 
Tells joystick 3 to switch on/off/blinking lamp 6. 
00 - Off 
01 - On 
10 - Blinking 
11 - Not available or not installed 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 39168 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 655 -
SPN 4486 Joystick 3 Lamp 7 Command 
Tells joystick 3 to switch on/off/blinking lamp 7. 
00 - Off 
01 - On 
10 - Blinking 
11 - Not available or not installed 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 39168 
SPN 4487 Joystick 3 Lamp 8 Command 
Tells joystick 3 to switch on/off/blinking lamp 8. 
00 - Off 
01 - On 
10 - Blinking 
11 - Not available or not installed 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 39168 
SPN 4488 Joystick 3 Lamp 9 Command 
Tells joystick 3 to switch on/off/blinking lamp 9. 
00 - Off 
01 - On 
10 - Blinking 
11 - Not available or not installed 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 39168 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 656 -
SPN 4489 Joystick 3 Lamp 10 Command 
Tells joystick 3 to switch on/off/blinking lamp 10. 
00 - Off 
01 - On 
10 - Blinking 
11 - Not available or not installed 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 39168 
SPN 4490 Specific Humidity 
Specific humidity of the ambient intake air. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.01 g/kg per bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 642.55 g/kg Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64992 
SPN 4491 Joystick 4 X-Axis Neutral Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is in the neutral position for that axis of travel. The neutral position 
measurement must be determined from some mechanism other than the axis position measurement device.
00 Not in Neutral Position 
01 In Neutral Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64816 
SPN 4492 Joystick 4 X-Axis Lever Left Negative Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is on the negative travel side (back, left, counterclockwise, down) relative to the 
neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on negative side of Neutral 
01 On negative side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64816 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 657 -
SPN 4493 Joystick 4 X-Axis Lever Right Positive Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is on the positive travel side (forward, right, clockwise, up) relative to the 
neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on Positive side of Neutral 
01 On positive side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64816 
SPN 4494 Joystick 4 X-Axis Position 
The position of the joystick in the relative motion of travel from the neutral position. Position value of 0 is Neutral and 
position value 1000 (100%) is the end of linear zone. Value of 1022 indicates an error has occurred. 
Data Length: 10 bits 
Resolution: 0.1 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 102 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64816 
SPN 4495 Joystick 4 Y-Axis Neutral Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is in the neutral position for that axis of travel. The neutral position 
measurement must be determined from some mechanism other than the axis position measurement device.
00 Not in Neutral Position 
01 In Neutral Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64816 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 658 -
SPN 4496 Joystick 4 Y-Axis Lever Back Negative Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is on the negative travel side (back, left, counterclockwise, down) relative to the 
neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on negative side of Neutral 
01 On negative side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64816 
SPN 4497 Joystick 4 Y-Axis Lever Forward Positive Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is on the positive travel side (forward, right, clockwise, up) relative to the 
neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on Positive side of Neutral 
01 On positive side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64816 
SPN 4498 Joystick 4 Y-Axis Position 
The position of the joystick in the relative motion of travel from the neutral position. Position value of 0 is Neutral and 
position value 1000 (100%) is the end of linear zone. Value of 1022 indicates an error has occurred. 
Data Length: 10 bits 
Resolution: 0.1 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 102 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64816 
SPN 4499 Joystick 4 Y-Axis Detent Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is in the detent position for that axis of travel. 
00 Not in the Detent Position 
01 In the Detent Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64816 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 659 -
SPN 4500 Joystick 4 X-Axis Detent Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is in the detent position for that axis of travel. 
00 Not in the Detent Position 
01 In the Detent Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64816 
SPN 4501 Joystick 4 Button 4 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64816 
SPN 4502 Joystick 4 Button 3 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64816 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 660 -
SPN 4503 Joystick 4 Button 2 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64816 
SPN 4504 Joystick 4 Button 1 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64816 
SPN 4505 Joystick 4 Button 8 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64816 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 661 -
SPN 4506 Joystick 4 Button 7 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64816 
SPN 4507 Joystick 4 Button 6 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64816 
SPN 4508 Joystick 4 Button 5 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64816 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 662 -
SPN 4509 Joystick 4 Button 12 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64816 
SPN 4510 Joystick 4 Button 11 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64816 
SPN 4511 Joystick 4 Button 10 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64816 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 663 -
SPN 4512 Joystick 4 Button 9 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64816 
SPN 4513 Joystick 4 Grip X-Axis Neutral Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick grip position is in the neutral position for that axis of travel. The neutral position 
measurement must be determined from some mechanism other than the axis position measurement device.
00 Not in Neutral Position 
01 In Neutral Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64815 
SPN 4514 Joystick 4 Grip X-Axis Lever Left Negative Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick grip position is on the negative travel side (back, left, counterclockwise, down) relative 
to the neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on negative side of Neutral 
01 On negative side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64815 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 664 -
SPN 4515 Joystick 4 Grip X-Axis Lever Right Positive Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick grip position is on the positive travel side (forward, right, clockwise, up) relative to the 
neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on Positive side of Neutral 
01 On positive side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64815 
SPN 4516 Joystick 4 Grip X-Axis Position 
The position of the joystick grip in the relative motion of travel from the neutral position. Position value of 0 is Neutral and
position value 1000 (100%) is the end of linear zone. Value of 1022 indicates an error has occurred. 
Data Length: 10 bits 
Resolution: 0.1 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 102 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64815 
SPN 4517 Joystick 4 Grip Y-Axis Neutral Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick grip position is in the neutral position for that axis of travel. The neutral position 
measurement must be determined from some mechanism other than the axis position measurement device.
00 Not in Neutral Position 
01 In Neutral Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64815 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 665 -
SPN 4518 Joystick 4 Grip Y-Axis Lever Back Negative Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick grip position is on the negative travel side (back, left, counterclockwise, down) relative 
to the neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on negative side of Neutral 
01 On negative side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64815 
SPN 4519 Joystick 4 Grip Y-Axis Lever Forward Positive Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick grip position is on the positive travel side (forward, right, clockwise, up) relative to the 
neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on Positive side of Neutral 
01 On positive side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64815 
SPN 4520 Joystick 4 Grip Y-Axis Position 
The position of the joystick grip in the relative motion of travel from the neutral position. Position value of 0 is Neutral and
position value 1000 (100%) is the end of linear zone. Value of 1022 indicates an error has occurred. 
Data Length: 10 bits 
Resolution: 0.1 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 102 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64815 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 666 -
SPN 4521 Joystick 4 Theta-Axis Neutral Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is in the neutral position for that axis of travel. The neutral position 
measurement must be determined from some mechanism other than the axis position measurement device.
00 Not in Neutral Position 
01 In Neutral Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64815 
SPN 4522 Joystick 4 Theta-Axis Counter Clockwise Negative Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is on the negative travel side (back, left, counterclockwise, down) relative to the 
neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on negative side of Neutral 
01 On negative side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64815 
SPN 4523 Joystick 4 Theta-Axis Clockwise Positive Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is on the positive travel side (forward, right, clockwise, up) relative to the 
neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on Positive side of Neutral 
01 On positive side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64815 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 667 -
SPN 4524 Joystick 4 Theta-Axis Position 
The position of the joystick in the relative motion of travel from the neutral position. Position value of 0 is Neutral and 
position value 1000 (100%) is the end of linear zone. Value of 1022 indicates an error has occurred. 
Data Length: 10 bits 
Resolution: 0.1 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 102 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64815 
SPN 4525 Joystick 4 Theta-Axis Detent Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is in the detent position for that axis of travel. 
00 Not in the Detent Position 
01 In the Detent Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64815 
SPN 4526 Joystick 4 Grip Y-Axis Detent Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick grip position is in the detent position for that axis of travel. 
00 Not in the Detent Position 
01 In the Detent Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64815 
SPN 4527 Joystick 4 Grip X-Axis Detent Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick grip position is in the detent position for that axis of travel. 
00 Not in the Detent Position 
01 In the Detent Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64815 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 668 -
SPN 4528 Joystick 5 X-Axis Neutral Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is in the neutral position for that axis of travel. The neutral position 
measurement must be determined from some mechanism other than the axis position measurement device.
00 Not in Neutral Position 
01 In Neutral Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64814 
SPN 4529 Joystick 5 X-Axis Lever Left Negative Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is on the negative travel side (back, left, counterclockwise, down) relative to the 
neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on negative side of Neutral 
01 On negative side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64814 
SPN 4530 Joystick 5 X-Axis Lever Right Positive Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is on the positive travel side (forward, right, clockwise, up) relative to the 
neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on Positive side of Neutral 
01 On positive side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64814 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 669 -
SPN 4531 Joystick 5 X-Axis Position 
The position of the joystick in the relative motion of travel from the neutral position. Position value of 0 is Neutral and 
position value 1000 (100%) is the end of linear zone. Value of 1022 indicates an error has occurred. 
Data Length: 10 bits 
Resolution: 0.1 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 102 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64814 
SPN 4532 Joystick 5 Y-Axis Neutral Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is in the neutral position for that axis of travel. The neutral position 
measurement must be determined from some mechanism other than the axis position measurement device.
00 Not in Neutral Position 
01 In Neutral Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64814 
SPN 4533 Joystick 5 Y-Axis Lever Back Negative Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is on the negative travel side (back, left, counterclockwise, down) relative to the 
neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on negative side of Neutral 
01 On negative side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64814 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 670 -
SPN 4534 Joystick 5 Y-Axis Lever Forward Positive Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is on the positive travel side (forward, right, clockwise, up) relative to the 
neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on Positive side of Neutral 
01 On positive side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64814 
SPN 4535 Joystick 5 Y-Axis Position 
The position of the joystick in the relative motion of travel from the neutral position. Position value of 0 is Neutral and 
position value 1000 (100%) is the end of linear zone. Value of 1022 indicates an error has occurred. 
Data Length: 10 bits 
Resolution: 0.1 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 102 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64814 
SPN 4536 Joystick 5 Y-Axis Detent Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is in the detent position for that axis of travel. 
00 Not in the Detent Position 
01 In the Detent Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64814 
SPN 4537 Joystick 5 X-Axis Detent Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is in the detent position for that axis of travel. 
00 Not in the Detent Position 
01 In the Detent Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64814 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 671 -
SPN 4538 Joystick 5 Button 4 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64814 
SPN 4539 Joystick 5 Button 3 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64814 
SPN 4540 Joystick 5 Button 2 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64814 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 672 -
SPN 4541 Joystick 5 Button 1 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64814 
SPN 4542 Joystick 5 Button 8 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64814 
SPN 4543 Joystick 5 Button 7 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64814 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 673 -
SPN 4544 Joystick 5 Button 6 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64814 
SPN 4545 Joystick 5 Button 5 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64814 
SPN 4546 Joystick 5 Button 12 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64814 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 674 -
SPN 4547 Joystick 5 Button 11 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64814 
SPN 4548 Joystick 5 Button 10 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64814 
SPN 4549 Joystick 5 Button 9 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64814 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 675 -
SPN 4550 Joystick 5 Grip X-Axis Neutral Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick grip position is in the neutral position for that axis of travel. The neutral position 
measurement must be determined from some mechanism other than the axis position measurement device.
00 Not in Neutral Position 
01 In Neutral Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64813 
SPN 4551 Joystick 5 Grip X-Axis Lever Left Negative Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick grip position is on the negative travel side (back, left, counterclockwise, down) relative 
to the neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on negative side of Neutral 
01 On negative side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64813 
SPN 4552 Joystick 5 Grip X-Axis Lever Right Positive Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick grip position is on the positive travel side (forward, right, clockwise, up) relative to the 
neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on Positive side of Neutral 
01 On positive side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64813 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 676 -
SPN 4553 Joystick 5 Grip X-Axis Position 
The position of the joystick grip in the relative motion of travel from the neutral position. Position value of 0 is Neutral and
position value 1000 (100%) is the end of linear zone. Value of 1022 indicates an error has occurred. 
Data Length: 10 bits 
Resolution: 0.1 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 102 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64813 
SPN 4554 Joystick 5 Grip Y-Axis Neutral Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick grip position is in the neutral position for that axis of travel. The neutral position 
measurement must be determined from some mechanism other than the axis position measurement device.
00 Not in Neutral Position 
01 In Neutral Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64813 
SPN 4555 Joystick 5 Grip Y-Axis Lever Back Negative Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick grip position is on the negative travel side (back, left, counterclockwise, down) relative 
to the neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on negative side of Neutral 
01 On negative side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64813 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 677 -
SPN 4556 Joystick 5 Grip Y-Axis Lever Forward Positive Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick grip position is on the positive travel side (forward, right, clockwise, up) relative to the 
neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on Positive side of Neutral 
01 On positive side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64813 
SPN 4557 Joystick 5 Grip Y-Axis Position 
The position of the joystick grip in the relative motion of travel from the neutral position. Position value of 0 is Neutral and
position value 1000 (100%) is the end of linear zone. Value of 1022 indicates an error has occurred. 
Data Length: 10 bits 
Resolution: 0.1 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 102 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64813 
SPN 4558 Joystick 5 Theta-Axis Neutral Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is in the neutral position for that axis of travel. The neutral position 
measurement must be determined from some mechanism other than the axis position measurement device.
00 Not in Neutral Position 
01 In Neutral Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64813 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 678 -
SPN 4559 Joystick 5 Theta-Axis Counter Clockwise Negative Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is on the negative travel side (back, left, counterclockwise, down) relative to the 
neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on negative side of Neutral 
01 On negative side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64813 
SPN 4560 Joystick 5 Theta-Axis Clockwise Positive Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is on the positive travel side (forward, right, clockwise, up) relative to the 
neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on Positive side of Neutral 
01 On positive side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64813 
SPN 4561 Joystick 5 Theta-Axis Position 
The position of the joystick in the relative motion of travel from the neutral position. Position value of 0 is Neutral and 
position value 1000 (100%) is the end of linear zone. Value of 1022 indicates an error has occurred. 
Data Length: 10 bits 
Resolution: 0.1 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 102 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64813 
SPN 4562 Joystick 5 Theta-Axis Detent Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is in the detent position for that axis of travel. 
00 Not in the Detent Position 
01 In the Detent Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64813 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 679 -
SPN 4563 Joystick 5 Grip Y-Axis Detent Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick grip position is in the detent position for that axis of travel. 
00 Not in the Detent Position 
01 In the Detent Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64813 
SPN 4564 Joystick 5 Grip X-Axis Detent Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick grip position is in the detent position for that axis of travel. 
00 Not in the Detent Position 
01 In the Detent Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64813 
SPN 4565 Joystick 6 X-Axis Neutral Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is in the neutral position for that axis of travel. The neutral position 
measurement must be determined from some mechanism other than the axis position measurement device.
00 Not in Neutral Position 
01 In Neutral Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64812 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 680 -
SPN 4566 Joystick 6 X-Axis Lever Left Negative Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is on the negative travel side (back, left, counterclockwise, down) relative to the 
neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on negative side of Neutral 
01 On negative side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64812 
SPN 4567 Joystick 6 X-Axis Lever Right Positive Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is on the positive travel side (forward, right, clockwise, up) relative to the 
neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on Positive side of Neutral 
01 On positive side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64812 
SPN 4568 Joystick 6 X-Axis Position 
The position of the joystick in the relative motion of travel from the neutral position. Position value of 0 is Neutral and 
position value 1000 (100%) is the end of linear zone. Value of 1022 indicates an error has occurred. 
Data Length: 10 bits 
Resolution: 0.1 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 102 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64812 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 681 -
SPN 4569 Joystick 6 Y-Axis Neutral Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is in the neutral position for that axis of travel. The neutral position 
measurement must be determined from some mechanism other than the axis position measurement device.
00 Not in Neutral Position 
01 In Neutral Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64812 
SPN 4570 Joystick 6 Y-Axis Lever Back Negative Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is on the negative travel side (back, left, counterclockwise, down) relative to the 
neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on negative side of Neutral 
01 On negative side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64812 
SPN 4571 Joystick 6 Y-Axis Lever Forward Positive Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is on the positive travel side (forward, right, clockwise, up) relative to the 
neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on Positive side of Neutral 
01 On positive side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64812 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 682 -
SPN 4572 Joystick 6 Y-Axis Position 
The position of the joystick in the relative motion of travel from the neutral position. Position value of 0 is Neutral and 
position value 1000 (100%) is the end of linear zone. Value of 1022 indicates an error has occurred. 
Data Length: 10 bits 
Resolution: 0.1 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 102 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64812 
SPN 4573 Joystick 6 Y-Axis Detent Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is in the detent position for that axis of travel. 
00 Not in the Detent Position 
01 In the Detent Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64812 
SPN 4574 Joystick 6 X-Axis Detent Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is in the detent position for that axis of travel. 
00 Not in the Detent Position 
01 In the Detent Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64812 
SPN 4575 Joystick 6 Button 4 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64812 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 683 -
SPN 4576 Joystick 6 Button 3 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64812 
SPN 4577 Joystick 6 Button 2 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64812 
SPN 4578 Joystick 6 Button 1 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64812 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 684 -
SPN 4579 Joystick 6 Button 8 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64812 
SPN 4580 Joystick 6 Button 7 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64812 
SPN 4581 Joystick 6 Button 6 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64812 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 685 -
SPN 4582 Joystick 6 Button 5 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64812 
SPN 4583 Joystick 6 Button 12 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64812 
SPN 4584 Joystick 6 Button 11 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64812 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 686 -
SPN 4585 Joystick 6 Button 10 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64812 
SPN 4586 Joystick 6 Button 9 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64812 
SPN 4587 Joystick 6 Grip X-Axis Neutral Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick grip position is in the neutral position for that axis of travel. The neutral position 
measurement must be determined from some mechanism other than the axis position measurement device.
00 Not in Neutral Position 
01 In Neutral Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64811 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 687 -
SPN 4588 Joystick 6 Grip X-Axis Lever Left Negative Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick grip position is on the negative travel side (back, left, counterclockwise, down) relative 
to the neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on negative side of Neutral 
01 On negative side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64811 
SPN 4589 Joystick 6 Grip X-Axis Lever Right Positive Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick grip position is on the positive travel side (forward, right, clockwise, up) relative to the 
neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on Positive side of Neutral 
01 On positive side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64811 
SPN 4590 Joystick 6 Grip X-Axis Position 
The position of the joystick grip in the relative motion of travel from the neutral position. Position value of 0 is Neutral and
position value 1000 (100%) is the end of linear zone. Value of 1022 indicates an error has occurred. 
Data Length: 10 bits 
Resolution: 0.1 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 102 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64811 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 688 -
SPN 4591 Joystick 6 Grip Y-Axis Neutral Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick grip position is in the neutral position for that axis of travel. The neutral position 
measurement must be determined from some mechanism other than the axis position measurement device.
00 Not in Neutral Position 
01 In Neutral Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64811 
SPN 4592 Joystick 6 Grip Y-Axis Lever Back Negative Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick grip position is on the negative travel side (back, left, counterclockwise, down) relative 
to the neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on negative side of Neutral 
01 On negative side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64811 
SPN 4593 Joystick 6 Grip Y-Axis Lever Forward Positive Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick grip position is on the positive travel side (forward, right, clockwise, up) relative to the 
neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on Positive side of Neutral 
01 On positive side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64811 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 689 -
SPN 4594 Joystick 6 Grip Y-Axis Position 
The position of the joystick grip in the relative motion of travel from the neutral position. Position value of 0 is Neutral and
position value 1000 (100%) is the end of linear zone. Value of 1022 indicates an error has occurred. 
Data Length: 10 bits 
Resolution: 0.1 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 102 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64811 
SPN 4595 Joystick 6 Theta-Axis Neutral Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is in the neutral position for that axis of travel. The neutral position 
measurement must be determined from some mechanism other than the axis position measurement device.
00 Not in Neutral Position 
01 In Neutral Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64811 
SPN 4596 Joystick 6 Theta-Axis Counter Clockwise Negative Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is on the negative travel side (back, left, counterclockwise, down) relative to the 
neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on negative side of Neutral 
01 On negative side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64811 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 690 -
SPN 4597 Joystick 6 Theta-Axis Clockwise Positive Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is on the positive travel side (forward, right, clockwise, up) relative to the 
neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on Positive side of Neutral 
01 On positive side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64811 
SPN 4598 Joystick 6 Theta-Axis Position 
The position of the joystick in the relative motion of travel from the neutral position. Position value of 0 is Neutral and 
position value 1000 (100%) is the end of linear zone. Value of 1022 indicates an error has occurred. 
Data Length: 10 bits 
Resolution: 0.1 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 102 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64811 
SPN 4599 Joystick 6 Theta-Axis Detent Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is in the detent position for that axis of travel. 
00 Not in the Detent Position 
01 In the Detent Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64811 
SPN 4600 Joystick 6 Grip Y-Axis Detent Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick grip position is in the detent position for that axis of travel. 
00 Not in the Detent Position 
01 In the Detent Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64811 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 691 -
SPN 4601 Joystick 6 Grip X-Axis Detent Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick grip position is in the detent position for that axis of travel. 
00 Not in the Detent Position 
01 In the Detent Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64811 
SPN 4602 Joystick 7 X-Axis Neutral Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is in the neutral position for that axis of travel. The neutral position 
measurement must be determined from some mechanism other than the axis position measurement device.
00 Not in Neutral Position 
01 In Neutral Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64810 
SPN 4603 Joystick 7 X-Axis Lever Left Negative Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is on the negative travel side (back, left, counterclockwise, down) relative to the 
neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on negative side of Neutral 
01 On negative side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64810 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 692 -
SPN 4604 Joystick 7 X-Axis Lever Right Positive Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is on the positive travel side (forward, right, clockwise, up) relative to the 
neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on Positive side of Neutral 
01 On positive side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64810 
SPN 4605 Joystick 7 X-Axis Position 
The position of the joystick in the relative motion of travel from the neutral position. Position value of 0 is Neutral and 
position value 1000 (100%) is the end of linear zone. Value of 1022 indicates an error has occurred. 
Data Length: 10 bits 
Resolution: 0.1 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 102 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64810 
SPN 4606 Joystick 7 Y-Axis Neutral Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is in the neutral position for that axis of travel. The neutral position 
measurement must be determined from some mechanism other than the axis position measurement device.
00 Not in Neutral Position 
01 In Neutral Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64810 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 693 -
SPN 4607 Joystick 7 Y-Axis Lever Back Negative Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is on the negative travel side (back, left, counterclockwise, down) relative to the 
neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on negative side of Neutral 
01 On negative side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64810 
SPN 4608 Joystick 7 Y-Axis Lever Forward Positive Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is on the positive travel side (forward, right, clockwise, up) relative to the 
neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on Positive side of Neutral 
01 On positive side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64810 
SPN 4609 Joystick 7 Y-Axis Position 
The position of the joystick in the relative motion of travel from the neutral position. Position value of 0 is Neutral and 
position value 1000 (100%) is the end of linear zone. Value of 1022 indicates an error has occurred. 
Data Length: 10 bits 
Resolution: 0.1 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 102 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64810 
SPN 4610 Joystick 7 Y-Axis Detent Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is in the detent position for that axis of travel. 
00 Not in the Detent Position 
01 In the Detent Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64810 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 694 -
SPN 4611 Joystick 7 X-Axis Detent Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is in the detent position for that axis of travel. 
00 Not in the Detent Position 
01 In the Detent Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64810 
SPN 4612 Joystick 7 Button 4 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64810 
SPN 4613 Joystick 7 Button 3 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64810 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 695 -
SPN 4614 Joystick 7 Button 2 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64810 
SPN 4615 Joystick 7 Button 1 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64810 
SPN 4616 Joystick 7 Button 8 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64810 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 696 -
SPN 4617 Joystick 7 Button 7 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64810 
SPN 4618 Joystick 7 Button 6 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64810 
SPN 4619 Joystick 7 Button 5 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64810 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 697 -
SPN 4620 Joystick 7 Button 12 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64810 
SPN 4621 Joystick 7 Button 11 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64810 
SPN 4622 Joystick 7 Button 10 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64810 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 698 -
SPN 4623 Joystick 7 Button 9 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64810 
SPN 4624 Joystick 7 Grip X-Axis Neutral Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick grip position is in the neutral position for that axis of travel. The neutral position 
measurement must be determined from some mechanism other than the axis position measurement device.
00 Not in Neutral Position 
01 In Neutral Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64809 
SPN 4625 Joystick 7 Grip X-Axis Lever Left Negative Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick grip position is on the negative travel side (back, left, counterclockwise, down) relative 
to the neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on negative side of Neutral 
01 On negative side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64809 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 699 -
SPN 4626 Joystick 7 Grip X-Axis Lever Right Positive Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick grip position is on the positive travel side (forward, right, clockwise, up) relative to the 
neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on Positive side of Neutral 
01 On positive side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64809 
SPN 4627 Joystick 7 Grip X-Axis Position 
The position of the joystick grip in the relative motion of travel from the neutral position. Position value of 0 is Neutral and
position value 1000 (100%) is the end of linear zone. Value of 1022 indicates an error has occurred. 
Data Length: 10 bits 
Resolution: 0.1 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 102 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64809 
SPN 4628 Joystick 7 Grip Y-Axis Neutral Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick grip position is in the neutral position for that axis of travel. The neutral position 
measurement must be determined from some mechanism other than the axis position measurement device.
00 Not in Neutral Position 
01 In Neutral Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64809 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 700 -
SPN 4629 Joystick 7 Grip Y-Axis Lever Back Negative Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick grip position is on the negative travel side (back, left, counterclockwise, down) relative 
to the neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on negative side of Neutral 
01 On negative side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64809 
SPN 4630 Joystick 7 Grip Y-Axis Lever Forward Positive Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick grip position is on the positive travel side (forward, right, clockwise, up) relative to the 
neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on Positive side of Neutral 
01 On positive side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64809 
SPN 4631 Joystick 7 Grip Y-Axis Position 
The position of the joystick grip in the relative motion of travel from the neutral position. Position value of 0 is Neutral and
position value 1000 (100%) is the end of linear zone. Value of 1022 indicates an error has occurred. 
Data Length: 10 bits 
Resolution: 0.1 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 102 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64809 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 701 -
SPN 4632 Joystick 7 Theta-Axis Neutral Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is in the neutral position for that axis of travel. The neutral position 
measurement must be determined from some mechanism other than the axis position measurement device.
00 Not in Neutral Position 
01 In Neutral Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64809 
SPN 4633 Joystick 7 Theta-Axis Counter Clockwise Negative Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is on the negative travel side (back, left, counterclockwise, down) relative to the 
neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on negative side of Neutral 
01 On negative side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64809 
SPN 4634 Joystick 7 Theta-Axis Clockwise Positive Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is on the positive travel side (forward, right, clockwise, up) relative to the 
neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on Positive side of Neutral 
01 On positive side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64809 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 702 -
SPN 4635 Joystick 7 Theta-Axis Position 
The position of the joystick in the relative motion of travel from the neutral position. Position value of 0 is Neutral and 
position value 1000 (100%) is the end of linear zone. Value of 1022 indicates an error has occurred. 
Data Length: 10 bits 
Resolution: 0.1 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 102 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64809 
SPN 4636 Joystick 7 Theta-Axis Detent Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is in the detent position for that axis of travel. 
00 Not in the Detent Position 
01 In the Detent Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64809 
SPN 4637 Joystick 7 Grip Y-Axis Detent Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick grip position is in the detent position for that axis of travel. 
00 Not in the Detent Position 
01 In the Detent Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64809 
SPN 4638 Joystick 7 Grip X-Axis Detent Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick grip position is in the detent position for that axis of travel. 
00 Not in the Detent Position 
01 In the Detent Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64809 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 703 -
SPN 4639 Joystick 8 X-Axis Neutral Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is in the neutral position for that axis of travel. The neutral position 
measurement must be determined from some mechanism other than the axis position measurement device.
00 Not in Neutral Position 
01 In Neutral Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64808 
SPN 4640 Joystick 8 X-Axis Lever Left Negative Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is on the negative travel side (back, left, counterclockwise, down) relative to the 
neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on negative side of Neutral 
01 On negative side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64808 
SPN 4641 Joystick 8 X-Axis Lever Right Positive Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is on the positive travel side (forward, right, clockwise, up) relative to the 
neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on Positive side of Neutral 
01 On positive side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64808 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 704 -
SPN 4642 Joystick 8 X-Axis Position 
The position of the joystick in the relative motion of travel from the neutral position. Position value of 0 is Neutral and 
position value 1000 (100%) is the end of linear zone. Value of 1022 indicates an error has occurred. 
Data Length: 10 bits 
Resolution: 0.1 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 102 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64808 
SPN 4643 Joystick 8 Y-Axis Neutral Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is in the neutral position for that axis of travel. The neutral position 
measurement must be determined from some mechanism other than the axis position measurement device.
00 Not in Neutral Position 
01 In Neutral Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64808 
SPN 4644 Joystick 8 Y-Axis Lever Back Negative Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is on the negative travel side (back, left, counterclockwise, down) relative to the 
neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on negative side of Neutral 
01 On negative side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64808 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 705 -
SPN 4645 Joystick 8 Y-Axis Lever Forward Positive Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is on the positive travel side (forward, right, clockwise, up) relative to the 
neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on Positive side of Neutral 
01 On positive side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64808 
SPN 4646 Joystick 8 Y-Axis Position 
The position of the joystick in the relative motion of travel from the neutral position. Position value of 0 is Neutral and 
position value 1000 (100%) is the end of linear zone. Value of 1022 indicates an error has occurred. 
Data Length: 10 bits 
Resolution: 0.1 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 102 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64808 
SPN 4647 Joystick 8 Y-Axis Detent Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is in the detent position for that axis of travel. 
00 Not in the Detent Position 
01 In the Detent Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64808 
SPN 4648 Joystick 8 X-Axis Detent Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is in the detent position for that axis of travel. 
00 Not in the Detent Position 
01 In the Detent Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64808 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 706 -
SPN 4649 Joystick 8 Button 4 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64808 
SPN 4650 Joystick 8 Button 3 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64808 
SPN 4651 Joystick 8 Button 2 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64808 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 707 -
SPN 4652 Joystick 8 Button 1 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64808 
SPN 4653 Joystick 8 Button 8 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64808 
SPN 4654 Joystick 8 Button 7 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64808 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 708 -
SPN 4655 Joystick 8 Button 6 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64808 
SPN 4656 Joystick 8 Button 5 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64808 
SPN 4657 Joystick 8 Button 12 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64808 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 709 -
SPN 4658 Joystick 8 Button 11 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64808 
SPN 4659 Joystick 8 Button 10 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64808 
SPN 4660 Joystick 8 Button 9 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64808 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 710 -
SPN 4661 Joystick 8 Grip X-Axis Neutral Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick grip position is in the neutral position for that axis of travel. The neutral position 
measurement must be determined from some mechanism other than the axis position measurement device.
00 Not in Neutral Position 
01 In Neutral Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64807 
SPN 4662 Joystick 8 Grip X-Axis Lever Left Negative Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick grip position is on the negative travel side (back, left, counterclockwise, down) relative 
to the neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on negative side of Neutral 
01 On negative side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64807 
SPN 4663 Joystick 8 Grip X-Axis Lever Right Positive Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick grip position is on the positive travel side (forward, right, clockwise, up) relative to the 
neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on Positive side of Neutral 
01 On positive side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64807 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 711 -
SPN 4664 Joystick 8 Grip X-Axis Position 
The position of the joystick grip in the relative motion of travel from the neutral position. Position value of 0 is Neutral and
position value 1000 (100%) is the end of linear zone. Value of 1022 indicates an error has occurred. 
Data Length: 10 bits 
Resolution: 0.1 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 102 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64807 
SPN 4665 Joystick 8 Grip Y-Axis Neutral Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick grip position is in the neutral position for that axis of travel. The neutral position 
measurement must be determined from some mechanism other than the axis position measurement device.
00 Not in Neutral Position 
01 In Neutral Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64807 
SPN 4666 Joystick 8 Grip Y-Axis Lever Back Negative Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick grip position is on the negative travel side (back, left, counterclockwise, down) relative 
to the neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on negative side of Neutral 
01 On negative side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64807 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 712 -
SPN 4667 Joystick 8 Grip Y-Axis Lever Forward Positive Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick grip position is on the positive travel side (forward, right, clockwise, up) relative to the 
neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on Positive side of Neutral 
01 On positive side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64807 
SPN 4668 Joystick 8 Grip Y-Axis Position 
The position of the joystick grip in the relative motion of travel from the neutral position. Position value of 0 is Neutral and
position value 1000 (100%) is the end of linear zone. Value of 1022 indicates an error has occurred. 
Data Length: 10 bits 
Resolution: 0.1 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 102 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64807 
SPN 4669 Joystick 8 Theta-Axis Neutral Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is in the neutral position for that axis of travel. The neutral position 
measurement must be determined from some mechanism other than the axis position measurement device.
00 Not in Neutral Position 
01 In Neutral Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64807 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 713 -
SPN 4670 Joystick 8 Theta-Axis Counter Clockwise Negative Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is on the negative travel side (back, left, counterclockwise, down) relative to the 
neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on negative side of Neutral 
01 On negative side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64807 
SPN 4671 Joystick 8 Theta-Axis Clockwise Positive Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is on the positive travel side (forward, right, clockwise, up) relative to the 
neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on Positive side of Neutral 
01 On positive side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64807 
SPN 4672 Joystick 8 Theta-Axis Position 
The position of the joystick in the relative motion of travel from the neutral position. Position value of 0 is Neutral and 
position value 1000 (100%) is the end of linear zone. Value of 1022 indicates an error has occurred. 
Data Length: 10 bits 
Resolution: 0.1 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 102 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64807 
SPN 4673 Joystick 8 Theta-Axis Detent Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is in the detent position for that axis of travel. 
00 Not in the Detent Position 
01 In the Detent Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64807 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 714 -
SPN 4674 Joystick 8 Grip Y-Axis Detent Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick grip position is in the detent position for that axis of travel. 
00 Not in the Detent Position 
01 In the Detent Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64807 
SPN 4675 Joystick 8 Grip X-Axis Detent Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick grip position is in the detent position for that axis of travel. 
00 Not in the Detent Position 
01 In the Detent Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64807 
SPN 4676 Joystick 9 X-Axis Neutral Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is in the neutral position for that axis of travel. The neutral position 
measurement must be determined from some mechanism other than the axis position measurement device.
00 Not in Neutral Position 
01 In Neutral Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64806 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 715 -
SPN 4677 Joystick 9 X-Axis Lever Left Negative Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is on the negative travel side (back, left, counterclockwise, down) relative to the 
neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on negative side of Neutral 
01 On negative side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64806 
SPN 4678 Joystick 9 X-Axis Lever Right Positive Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is on the positive travel side (forward, right, clockwise, up) relative to the 
neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on Positive side of Neutral 
01 On positive side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64806 
SPN 4679 Joystick 9 X-Axis Position 
The position of the joystick in the relative motion of travel from the neutral position. Position value of 0 is Neutral and 
position value 1000 (100%) is the end of linear zone. Value of 1022 indicates an error has occurred. 
Data Length: 10 bits 
Resolution: 0.1 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 102 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64806 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 716 -
SPN 4680 Joystick 9 Y-Axis Neutral Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is in the neutral position for that axis of travel. The neutral position 
measurement must be determined from some mechanism other than the axis position measurement device.
00 Not in Neutral Position 
01 In Neutral Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64806 
SPN 4681 Joystick 9 Y-Axis Lever Back Negative Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is on the negative travel side (back, left, counterclockwise, down) relative to the 
neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on negative side of Neutral 
01 On negative side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64806 
SPN 4682 Joystick 9 Y-Axis Lever Forward Positive Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is on the positive travel side (forward, right, clockwise, up) relative to the 
neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on Positive side of Neutral 
01 On positive side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64806 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 717 -
SPN 4683 Joystick 9 Y-Axis Position 
The position of the joystick in the relative motion of travel from the neutral position. Position value of 0 is Neutral and 
position value 1000 (100%) is the end of linear zone. Value of 1022 indicates an error has occurred. 
Data Length: 10 bits 
Resolution: 0.1 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 102 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64806 
SPN 4684 Joystick 9 Y-Axis Detent Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is in the detent position for that axis of travel. 
00 Not in the Detent Position 
01 In the Detent Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64806 
SPN 4685 Joystick 9 X-Axis Detent Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is in the detent position for that axis of travel. 
00 Not in the Detent Position 
01 In the Detent Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64806 
SPN 4686 Joystick 9 Button 4 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64806 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 718 -
SPN 4687 Joystick 9 Button 3 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64806 
SPN 4688 Joystick 9 Button 2 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64806 
SPN 4689 Joystick 9 Button 1 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64806 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 719 -
SPN 4690 Joystick 9 Button 8 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64806 
SPN 4691 Joystick 9 Button 7 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64806 
SPN 4692 Joystick 9 Button 6 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64806 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 720 -
SPN 4693 Joystick 9 Button 5 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64806 
SPN 4694 Joystick 9 Button 12 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64806 
SPN 4695 Joystick 9 Button 11 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64806 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 721 -
SPN 4696 Joystick 9 Button 10 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64806 
SPN 4697 Joystick 9 Button 9 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64806 
SPN 4698 Joystick 9 Grip X-Axis Neutral Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick grip position is in the neutral position for that axis of travel. The neutral position 
measurement must be determined from some mechanism other than the axis position measurement device.
00 Not in Neutral Position 
01 In Neutral Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64805 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 722 -
SPN 4699 Joystick 9 Grip X-Axis Lever Left Negative Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick grip position is on the negative travel side (back, left, counterclockwise, down) relative 
to the neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on negative side of Neutral 
01 On negative side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64805 
SPN 4700 Joystick 9 Grip X-Axis Lever Right Positive Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick grip position is on the positive travel side (forward, right, clockwise, up) relative to the 
neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on Positive side of Neutral 
01 On positive side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64805 
SPN 4701 Joystick 9 Grip X-Axis Position 
The position of the joystick grip in the relative motion of travel from the neutral position. Position value of 0 is Neutral and
position value 1000 (100%) is the end of linear zone. Value of 1022 indicates an error has occurred. 
Data Length: 10 bits 
Resolution: 0.1 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 102 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64805 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 723 -
SPN 4702 Joystick 9 Grip Y-Axis Neutral Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick grip position is in the neutral position for that axis of travel. The neutral position 
measurement must be determined from some mechanism other than the axis position measurement device.
00 Not in Neutral Position 
01 In Neutral Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64805 
SPN 4703 Joystick 9 Grip Y-Axis Lever Back Negative Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick grip position is on the negative travel side (back, left, counterclockwise, down) relative 
to the neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on negative side of Neutral 
01 On negative side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64805 
SPN 4704 Joystick 9 Grip Y-Axis Lever Forward Positive Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick grip position is on the positive travel side (forward, right, clockwise, up) relative to the 
neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on Positive side of Neutral 
01 On positive side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64805 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 724 -
SPN 4705 Joystick 9 Grip Y-Axis Position 
The position of the joystick grip in the relative motion of travel from the neutral position. Position value of 0 is Neutral and
position value 1000 (100%) is the end of linear zone. Value of 1022 indicates an error has occurred. 
Data Length: 10 bits 
Resolution: 0.1 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 102 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64805 
SPN 4706 Joystick 9 Theta-Axis Neutral Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is in the neutral position for that axis of travel. The neutral position 
measurement must be determined from some mechanism other than the axis position measurement device.
00 Not in Neutral Position 
01 In Neutral Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64805 
SPN 4707 Joystick 9 Theta-Axis Counter Clockwise Negative Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is on the negative travel side (back, left, counterclockwise, down) relative to the 
neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on negative side of Neutral 
01 On negative side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64805 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 725 -
SPN 4708 Joystick 9 Theta-Axis Clockwise Positive Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is on the positive travel side (forward, right, clockwise, up) relative to the 
neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on Positive side of Neutral 
01 On positive side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64805 
SPN 4709 Joystick 9 Theta-Axis Position 
The position of the joystick in the relative motion of travel from the neutral position. Position value of 0 is Neutral and 
position value 1000 (100%) is the end of linear zone. Value of 1022 indicates an error has occurred. 
Data Length: 10 bits 
Resolution: 0.1 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 102 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64805 
SPN 4710 Joystick 9 Theta-Axis Detent Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is in the detent position for that axis of travel. 
00 Not in the Detent Position 
01 In the Detent Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64805 
SPN 4711 Joystick 9 Grip Y-Axis Detent Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick grip position is in the detent position for that axis of travel. 
00 Not in the Detent Position 
01 In the Detent Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64805 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 726 -
SPN 4712 Joystick 9 Grip X-Axis Detent Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick grip position is in the detent position for that axis of travel. 
00 Not in the Detent Position 
01 In the Detent Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64805 
SPN 4713 Joystick 10 X-Axis Neutral Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is in the neutral position for that axis of travel. The neutral position 
measurement must be determined from some mechanism other than the axis position measurement device.
00 Not in Neutral Position 
01 In Neutral Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64804 
SPN 4714 Joystick 10 X-Axis Lever Left Negative Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is on the negative travel side (back, left, counterclockwise, down) relative to the 
neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on negative side of Neutral 
01 On negative side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64804 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 727 -
SPN 4715 Joystick 10 X-Axis Lever Right Positive Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is on the positive travel side (forward, right, clockwise, up) relative to the 
neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on Positive side of Neutral 
01 On positive side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64804 
SPN 4716 Joystick 10 X-Axis Position 
The position of the joystick in the relative motion of travel from the neutral position. Position value of 0 is Neutral and 
position value 1000 (100%) is the end of linear zone. Value of 1022 indicates an error has occurred. 
Data Length: 10 bits 
Resolution: 0.1 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 102 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64804 
SPN 4717 Joystick 10 Y-Axis Neutral Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is in the neutral position for that axis of travel. The neutral position 
measurement must be determined from some mechanism other than the axis position measurement device.
00 Not in Neutral Position 
01 In Neutral Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64804 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 728 -
SPN 4718 Joystick 10 Y-Axis Lever Back Negative Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is on the negative travel side (back, left, counterclockwise, down) relative to the 
neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on negative side of Neutral 
01 On negative side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64804 
SPN 4719 Joystick 10 Y-Axis Lever Forward Positive Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is on the positive travel side (forward, right, clockwise, up) relative to the 
neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on Positive side of Neutral 
01 On positive side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64804 
SPN 4720 Joystick 10 Y-Axis Position 
The position of the joystick in the relative motion of travel from the neutral position. Position value of 0 is Neutral and 
position value 1000 (100%) is the end of linear zone. Value of 1022 indicates an error has occurred. 
Data Length: 10 bits 
Resolution: 0.1 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 102 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64804 
SPN 4721 Joystick 10 Y-Axis Detent Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is in the detent position for that axis of travel. 
00 Not in the Detent Position 
01 In the Detent Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64804 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 729 -
SPN 4722 Joystick 10 X-Axis Detent Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is in the detent position for that axis of travel. 
00 Not in the Detent Position 
01 In the Detent Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64804 
SPN 4723 Joystick 10 Button 4 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64804 
SPN 4724 Joystick 10 Button 3 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64804 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 730 -
SPN 4725 Joystick 10 Button 2 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64804 
SPN 4726 Joystick 10 Button 1 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64804 
SPN 4727 Joystick 10 Button 8 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64804 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 731 -
SPN 4728 Joystick 10 Button 7 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64804 
SPN 4729 Joystick 10 Button 6 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64804 
SPN 4730 Joystick 10 Button 5 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64804 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 732 -
SPN 4731 Joystick 10 Button 12 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64804 
SPN 4732 Joystick 10 Button 11 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64804 
SPN 4733 Joystick 10 Button 10 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64804 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 733 -
SPN 4734 Joystick 10 Button 9 Pressed Status 
Reports when the joystick button has been pressed. 
00 Button not pressed 
01 Button pressed 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64804 
SPN 4735 Joystick 10 Grip X-Axis Neutral Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick grip position is in the neutral position for that axis of travel. The neutral position 
measurement must be determined from some mechanism other than the axis position measurement device.
00 Not in Neutral Position 
01 In Neutral Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64803 
SPN 4736 Joystick 10 Grip X-Axis Lever Left Negative Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick grip position is on the negative travel side (back, left, counterclockwise, down) relative 
to the neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on negative side of Neutral 
01 On negative side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64803 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 734 -
SPN 4737 Joystick 10 Grip X-Axis Lever Right Positive Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick grip position is on the positive travel side (forward, right, clockwise, up) relative to the 
neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on Positive side of Neutral 
01 On positive side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64803 
SPN 4738 Joystick 10 Grip X-Axis Position 
The position of the joystick grip in the relative motion of travel from the neutral position. Position value of 0 is Neutral and
position value 1000 (100%) is the end of linear zone. Value of 1022 indicates an error has occurred. 
Data Length: 10 bits 
Resolution: 0.1 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 102 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64803 
SPN 4739 Joystick 10 Grip Y-Axis Neutral Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick grip position is in the neutral position for that axis of travel. The neutral position 
measurement must be determined from some mechanism other than the axis position measurement device.
00 Not in Neutral Position 
01 In Neutral Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64803 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 735 -
SPN 4740 Joystick 10 Grip Y-Axis Lever Back Negative Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick grip position is on the negative travel side (back, left, counterclockwise, down) relative 
to the neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on negative side of Neutral 
01 On negative side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64803 
SPN 4741 Joystick 10 Grip Y-Axis Lever Forward Positive Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick grip position is on the positive travel side (forward, right, clockwise, up) relative to the 
neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on Positive side of Neutral 
01 On positive side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64803 
SPN 4742 Joystick 10 Grip Y-Axis Position 
The position of the joystick grip in the relative motion of travel from the neutral position. Position value of 0 is Neutral and
position value 1000 (100%) is the end of linear zone. Value of 1022 indicates an error has occurred. 
Data Length: 10 bits 
Resolution: 0.1 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 102 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64803 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 736 -
SPN 4743 Joystick 10 Theta-Axis Neutral Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is in the neutral position for that axis of travel. The neutral position 
measurement must be determined from some mechanism other than the axis position measurement device.
00 Not in Neutral Position 
01 In Neutral Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64803 
SPN 4744 Joystick 10 Theta-Axis Counter Clockwise Negative Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is on the negative travel side (back, left, counterclockwise, down) relative to the 
neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on negative side of Neutral 
01 On negative side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64803 
SPN 4745 Joystick 10 Theta-Axis Clockwise Positive Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is on the positive travel side (forward, right, clockwise, up) relative to the 
neutral position for that axis of travel.
00 Not on Positive side of Neutral 
01 On positive side of Neutral 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64803 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 737 -
SPN 4746 Joystick 10 Theta-Axis Position 
The position of the joystick in the relative motion of travel from the neutral position. Position value of 0 is Neutral and 
position value 1000 (100%) is the end of linear zone. Value of 1022 indicates an error has occurred. 
Data Length: 10 bits 
Resolution: 0.1 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 102 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64803 
SPN 4747 Joystick 10 Theta-Axis Detent Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick position is in the detent position for that axis of travel. 
00 Not in the Detent Position 
01 In the Detent Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64803 
SPN 4748 Joystick 10 Grip Y-Axis Detent Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick grip position is in the detent position for that axis of travel. 
00 Not in the Detent Position 
01 In the Detent Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64803 
SPN 4749 Joystick 10 Grip X-Axis Detent Position Status 
Reports when the current joystick grip position is in the detent position for that axis of travel. 
00 Not in the Detent Position 
01 In the Detent Position 
10 Error Indicator 
11 Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64803 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 738 -
SPN 4750 Engine Exhaust Gas Recirculation 1 (EGR1) Cooler Intake Temperature 
Exhaust Gas Recirculation (EGR) Temperature measured at the EGR cooler intake. See SPN 412 for Engine EGR 
temperature which is typically measured at the EGR cooler outlet. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 27 
PGN reference: 64879 
SPN 4751 Engine Exhaust Gas Recirculation 1 (EGR1) Cooler Intake Gas Absolute Pressure 
Exhaust Gas Recirculation gas absolute pressure is measured at the EGR cooler intake. See SPN 3358 for EGR 
pressure measured at the EGR cooler outlet before the valve. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.5 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 32,127.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 27 
PGN reference: 64879 
SPN 4752 Engine Exhaust Gas Recirculation 1 (EGR1) Cooler Efficiency 
Exhaust Gas Recirculation cooler efficiency is an indication of the cooler’s ability to reduce the temperature of the exhaust 
gas that is being recirculated back to the intake. 0% = no reduction in temperature, 100% = maximum cooling. The EGR 
cooler efficiency is calculated as (EGR cooler intake temperature minus EGR gas temperature) divided by (EGR cooler 
intake temperature minus engine coolant temperature). 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 27 
PGN reference: 64879 
SPN 4753 Aftertreatment 1 Gas Oxidation Catalyst Intake Gas Temperature 
Temperature of engine combustion byproducts entering the gas oxidation catalyst in exhaust bank 1. This gas parameter 
should be used with engines fueled by gaseous fuel like natural gas or propane. A separate parameter has been defined 
for diesel fueled engines. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 64948 
PGN reference: 64802 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 739 -
SPN 4754 Aftertreatment 1 Gas Oxidation Catalyst Outlet Gas Temperature 
Temperature of engine combustion byproducts leaving the gas oxidation catalyst in exhaust bank 1. This gas parameter 
should be used with engines fueled by gaseous fuel like natural gas or propane. A separate parameter has been defined 
for diesel fueled engines 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 64948 
PGN reference: 64802 
SPN 4755 Aftertreatment 1 Gas Oxidation Catalyst Differential Pressure 
Exhaust differential pressure measured between the intake and exhaust of the gas oxidation catalyst in exhaust bank 1.
This gas parameter should be used with engines fueled by gaseous fuel like natural gas or propane. A separate 
parameter has been defined for diesel fueled engines. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6,425.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 64948 
PGN reference: 64802 
SPN 4756 Aftertreatment 1 Gas Oxidation Catalyst Intake Gas Temperature Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI detected in the gas oxidation catalyst intake gas temperature sensor by the 
manufacturer’s sensor control software in exhaust bank 1. When there is no failure FMI 31 is sent. In the case of multiple 
failures the most severe is communicated. This gas parameter should be used with engines fueled by gaseous fuel like 
natural gas or propane. A separate parameter has been defined for diesel fueled engines. 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: Binary, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64802 
SPN 4757 Aftertreatment 1 Gas Oxidation Catalyst Outlet Gas Temperature Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI detected in the gas oxidation catalyst outlet gas temperature sensor by the 
manufacturer’s sensor control software in exhaust bank 1. When there is no failure FMI 31 is sent. In the case of multiple 
failures the most severe is communicated. This gas parameter should be used with engines fueled by gaseous fuel like 
natural gas or propane. A separate parameter has been defined for diesel fueled engines. 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: Binary, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64802 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 740 -
SPN 4758 Aftertreatment 1 Gas Oxidation Catalyst Differential Pressure Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI detected in the gas oxidation catalyst differential pressure sensor by the 
manufacturer’s sensor control software in exhaust bank 1. When there is no failure FMI 31 is sent. In the case of multiple 
failures the most severe is communicated. This gas parameter should be used with engines fueled by gaseous fuel like 
natural gas or propane. A separate parameter has been defined for diesel fueled engines. 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: Binary, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64802 
SPN 4759 Aftertreatment 2 Gas Oxidation Catalyst Intake Gas Temperature 
Temperature of engine combustion byproducts entering the gas oxidation catalyst in exhaust bank 2. This gas parameter 
should be used with engines fueled by gaseous fuel like natural gas or propane. A separate parameter has been defined 
for diesel fueled engines. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 64948 
PGN reference: 64801 
SPN 4760 Aftertreatment 2 Gas Oxidation Catalyst Outlet Gas Temperature 
Temperature of engine combustion byproducts leaving the gas oxidation catalyst in exhaust bank 2. This gas parameter 
should be used with engines fueled by gaseous fuel like natural gas or propane. A separate parameter has been defined 
for diesel fueled engines 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 64948 
PGN reference: 64801 
SPN 4761 Aftertreatment 2 Gas Oxidation Catalyst Differential Pressure 
Exhaust differential pressure measured between the intake and exhaust of the gas oxidation catalyst in exhaust bank 2.
This gas parameter should be used with engines fueled by gaseous fuel like natural gas or propane. A separate 
parameter has been defined for diesel fueled engines. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6,425.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 64948 
PGN reference: 64801 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 741 -
SPN 4762 Aftertreatment 2 Gas Oxidation Catalyst Intake Gas Temperature Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI detected in the gas oxidation catalyst intake gas temperature sensor by the 
manufacturer’s sensor control software in exhaust bank 2. When there is no failure FMI 31 is sent. In the case of multiple 
failures the most severe is communicated. This gas parameter should be used with engines fueled by gaseous fuel like 
natural gas or propane. A separate parameter has been defined for diesel fueled engines. 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: Binary, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64801 
SPN 4763 Aftertreatment 2 Gas Oxidation Catalyst Outlet Gas Temperature Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI detected in the gas oxidation catalyst outlet gas temperature sensor by the 
manufacturer’s sensor control software in exhaust bank 2. When there is no failure FMI 31 is sent. In the case of multiple 
failures the most severe is communicated. This gas parameter should be used with engines fueled by gaseous fuel like 
natural gas or propane. A separate parameter has been defined for diesel fueled engines. 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: Binary, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64801 
SPN 4764 Aftertreatment 2 Gas Oxidation Catalyst Differential Pressure Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI detected in the gas oxidation catalyst differential pressure sensor by the 
manufacturer’s sensor control software in exhaust bank 2. When there is no failure FMI 31 is sent. In the case of multiple 
failures the most severe is communicated. This gas parameter should be used with engines fueled by gaseous fuel like 
natural gas or propane. A separate parameter has been defined for diesel fueled engines. 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: Binary, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64801 
SPN 4765 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Oxidation Catalyst Intake Gas Temperature 
Temperature of engine combustion byproducts entering the diesel oxidation catalyst in exhaust bank 1. This diesel 
parameter should be used with engines fueled by diesel fuel (not gaseous fuel like natural gas or propane). A separate 
parameter has been defined for gas fueled engines. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64800 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 742 -
SPN 4766 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Oxidation Catalyst Outlet Gas Temperature 
Temperature of engine combustion byproducts leaving the diesel oxidation catalyst exhaust in exhaust bank 1. This 
diesel parameter should be used with engines fueled by diesel fuel (not gaseous fuel like natural gas or propane). A 
separate parameter has been defined for gas fueled engines. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64800 
SPN 4767 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Oxidation Catalyst Differential Pressure 
Exhaust differential pressure measured between the intake and exhaust of a diesel oxidation catalyst in exhaust bank 1.
This diesel parameter should be used with engines fueled by diesel fuel (not gaseous fuel like natural gas or propane). A 
separate parameter has been defined for gas fueled engines. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6,425.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64800 
SPN 4768 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Oxidation Catalyst Intake Gas Temperature Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI detected in the diesel oxidation catalyst intake gas temperature sensor by 
the manufacturer’s sensor control software in exhaust bank 1. When there is no failure FMI 31 is sent. In the case of 
multiple failures the most severe is communicated. This diesel parameter should be used with engines fueled by diesel 
fuel (not gaseous fuel like natural gas or propane). A separate parameter has been defined for gas fueled engines. 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: Binary, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64800 
SPN 4769 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Oxidation Catalyst Outlet Gas Temperature Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI detected in the diesel oxidation catalyst outlet gas temperature sensor by 
the manufacturer’s sensor control software in exhaust bank 1. When there is no failure FMI 31 is sent. In the case of 
multiple failures the most severe is communicated. This gas parameter should be used with engines fueled by gaseous 
fuel like natural gas or propane. A separate parameter has been defined for diesel fueled engines. 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: Binary, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 64948 
PGN reference: 64800 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 743 -
SPN 4770 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Oxidation Catalyst Differential Pressure Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI detected in the diesel oxidation catalyst differential pressure sensor by the 
manufacturer’s sensor control software in exhaust bank 1. When there is no failure FMI 31 is sent. In the case of multiple 
failures the most severe is communicated. This diesel parameter should be used with engines fueled by diesel fuel (not 
gaseous fuel like natural gas or propane). A separate parameter has been defined for gas fueled engines. 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: Binary, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64800 
SPN 4771 Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Oxidation Catalyst Intake Gas Temperature 
Temperature of engine combustion byproducts entering the diesel oxidation catalyst in exhaust bank 2. This diesel 
parameter should be used with engines fueled by diesel fuel (not gaseous fuel like natural gas or propane). A separate 
parameter has been defined for gas fueled engines. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 64948 
PGN reference: 64799 
SPN 4772 Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Oxidation Catalyst Outlet Gas Temperature 
Temperature of engine combustion byproducts leaving the diesel oxidation catalyst exhaust in exhaust bank 2. This 
diesel parameter should be used with engines fueled by diesel fuel (not gaseous fuel like natural gas or propane). A 
separate parameter has been defined for gas fueled engines. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 64948 
PGN reference: 64799 
SPN 4773 Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Oxidation Catalyst Differential Pressure 
Exhaust differential pressure measured between the intake and exhaust of a diesel oxidation catalyst in exhaust bank 2.
This diesel parameter should be used with engines fueled by diesel fuel (not gaseous fuel like natural gas or propane). A 
separate parameter has been defined for gas fueled engines. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.5 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 32,127.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 64948 
PGN reference: 64799 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 744 -
SPN 4774 Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Oxidation Catalyst Intake Gas Temperature Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI detected in the diesel oxidation catalyst intake gas temperature sensor by 
the manufacturer’s sensor control software in exhaust bank 2. When there is no failure FMI 31 is sent. In the case of 
multiple failures the most severe is communicated. This diesel parameter should be used with engines fueled by diesel 
fuel (not gaseous fuel like natural gas or propane). A separate parameter has been defined for gas fueled engines. 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: Binary, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64799 
SPN 4775 Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Oxidation Catalyst Outlet Gas Temperature Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI detected in the diesel oxidation catalyst outlet gas temperature sensor by 
the manufacturer’s sensor control software in exhaust bank 2. When there is no failure FMI 31 is sent. In the case of 
multiple failures the most severe is communicated. This gas parameter should be used with engines fueled by gaseous 
fuel like natural gas or propane. A separate parameter has been defined for diesel fueled engines. 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: Binary, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64799 
SPN 4776 Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Oxidation Catalyst Differential Pressure Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI detected in the diesel oxidation catalyst differential pressure sensor by the 
manufacturer’s sensor control software in exhaust bank 2. When there is no failure FMI 31 is sent. In the case of multiple 
failures the most severe is communicated. This diesel parameter should be used with engines fueled by diesel fuel (not 
gaseous fuel like natural gas or propane). A separate parameter has been defined for gas fueled engines. 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: Binary, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64799 
SPN 4777 Aftertreatment 1 Gas Oxidation Catalyst Differential Gas Temperature 
The differential engine combustion byproducts gas temperature measured between the intake and outlet of the gas 
oxidation catalyst for exhaust bank 1. This gas parameter should be used with engine fueled by gaseous fuel like natural 
gas or propane. Diesel engines should not use this parameter. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 64948 
PGN reference: 64798 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 745 -
SPN 4778 Aftertreatment 2 Gas Oxidation Catalyst Differential Gas Temperature 
The differential engine combustion byproducts gas temperature measured between the intake and outlet of the gas 
oxidation catalyst for exhaust bank 2. This gas parameter should be used with engine fueled by gaseous fuel like natural 
gas or propane. Diesel engines should not use this parameter. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 64948 
PGN reference: 64798 
SPN 4779 Aftertreatment 1 Three Way Catalyst Differential Gas Temperature 
The differential engine combustion byproducts gas temperature measured between the intake and outlet of the three way 
catalyst for exhaust bank 1. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 64948 
PGN reference: 64797 
SPN 4780 Aftertreatment 2 Three Way Catalyst Differential Gas Temperature 
The differential engine combustion byproducts gas temperature measured between the intake and outlet of the three way 
catalyst for exhaust bank 2. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 64948 
PGN reference: 64797 
SPN 4781 Diesel Particulate Filter 1 Soot Mass 
Soot mass in diesel particulate filter 1. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 4 g/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 1000 g Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64796 
SPN 4782 Diesel Particulate Filter 1 Soot Density 
Soot density in diesel particulate filter 1. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.08 g/L per bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 20.0 g/L Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64796 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 746 -
SPN 4783 Diesel Particulate Filter 1 Mean Soot Signal 
Mean output signal level from diesel particulate filter 1 soot sensor. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.0025 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 160.6375 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64796 
SPN 4784 Diesel Particulate Filter 1 Median Soot Signal 
Median output signal level from diesel particulate filter 1 soot sensor. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.0025 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 160.6375 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64796 
SPN 4785 Diesel Particulate Filter 1 Soot Sensor Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI detected in the soot sensor signal by the manufacturer’s sensor control 
software in diesel particulate filter 1. When there is no failure FMI 31 is sent. In the case of multiple failures the most 
severe is communicated. 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: Binary, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64796 
SPN 4786 Diesel Particulate Filter 2 Soot Mass 
Soot mass in diesel particulate filter 2. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 4 g/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 1000 g Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64795 
SPN 4787 Diesel Particulate Filter 2 Soot Density 
Soot density in diesel particulate filter 2. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.08 g/L per bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 20.0 g/L Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64795 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 747 -
SPN 4788 Diesel Particulate Filter 2 Mean Soot Signal 
Mean output signal level from diesel particulate filter 2 soot sensor. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.0025 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 160.6375 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64795 
SPN 4789 Diesel Particulate Filter 2 Median Soot Signal 
Median output signal level from diesel particulate filter 2 soot sensor. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.0025 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 160.6375 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64795 
SPN 4790 Diesel Particulate Filter 2 Soot Sensor Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI detected in the soot sensor signal by the manufacturer’s sensor control 
software in diesel particulate filter 2. When there is no failure FMI 31 is sent. In the case of multiple failures the most 
severe is communicated. 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: Binary, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64795 
SPN 4809 Aftertreatment 1 Warm Up Diesel Oxidation Catalyst Intake Temperature 
This is the temperature measured at the intake of the warm up oxidation catalytic converter in exhaust bank 1. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64794 
SPN 4810 Aftertreatment 1 Warm Up Diesel Oxidation Catalyst Outlet Temperature 
This is the temperature measured at the outlet of the warm up oxidation catalytic converter in exhaust bank 1. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64794 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 748 -
SPN 4811 Engine Oil Pressure in Piston Cooling Gallery 
Pressure of the engine lubricating oil in the gallery that feeds the piston cooling spray nozzles. The pressure in this 
gallery varies from the main engine oil fed to the bearings, and is usually lower. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 4 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 1000 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 
SPN 4812 Engine Piston Cooling Oil Supply Valve Opening 
Command for the Piston Cooling Valve opening; zero is closed (no oil to cool the pistons) and 100% is open (all possible 
oil flowing to cool the pistons.) 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 
SPN 4813 Engine Oil Thermostat Bypass Valve Opening 
Command to the valve that directs engine oil around the oil thermostat. Zero means closed (all oil flows through the 
thermostat passage) and 100% means open (all possible oil bypasses the thermostat.) 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 
SPN 4814 Engine Coolant Pump command 
Command for a coolant pump that can be driven at varying output level. A command of zero is pump OFF, 100% results 
in maximum coolant flow. The pump may allow adjustment of coolant flow by varying the pump speed. The ECU 
commands a percentage of maximum pump output. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 749 -
SPN 4815 Engine Cooling Fan Thermal Switch Position 
This is a feedback measurement of the position of a thermal switch that turns on an engine cooling fan. 
0 = OFF (cooling flow not needed) 
1 = ON (cooling flow demanded) 
2 = ERROR 
3 = Not Available 
Note that this is not a command to turn the fan on, nor a direct measurement of fan speed to assure that the fan is 
working. It is a measurement of the position of a switch that is activated by temperature, and provides feedback to the 
ECU of the state of that thermal switch. 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 
SPN 4816 Transmission Torque Converter Lockup Transition in Process 
State signal indicating whether or not the transmission torque converter lock up clutch is transitioning between being 
applied and being released. The broadcast value should be set to 01 as soon as an apply or release of the lockup clutch 
is initiated, and then set to 00 once the given transition is complete. This parameter is a companion to SPN 573 
Transmission Torque Converter Lockup Engaged. 
00 - Transition is not in process 
01 - Transition is in process 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61442 
SPN 4817 Engine Intake Manifold #1 Absolute Pressure (High Resolution) 
The absolute pressure measurement of the air intake manifold. If there are multiple air pressure sensors in the intake 
stream, this is the last one in flow direction before entering the combustion chamber. This SPN is a high resolution 
measurement. See SPN 3563 if high resolution is not needed. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6,425.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64976 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 750 -
SPN 4818 Driver Airbag Ignitor Loop 1st Stage - Resistance 
Resistance of Driver Airbag Ignitor Loop 1st Stage. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SPN 4819 Passenger Airbag Ignitor Loop 1st Stage - Resistance 
Resistance of Passenger Airbag Ignitor Loop 1st Stage. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SPN 4820 Driver Airbag Ignitor Loop 2nd Stage - Resistance 
Resistance of Driver Airbag Ignitor Loop 2nd Stage. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SPN 4821 Passenger Airbag Ignitor Loop 2nd Stage - Resistance 
Resistance of Passenger Airbag Ignitor Loop 2nd Stage. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SPN 4822 Driver Belt Tensioner Ignitior Loop - Resistance 
Resistance of Driver Belt Tensioner Ignitor Loop 1st Stage. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 751 -
SPN 4823 Passenger Belt Tensioner Ignitor Loop - Resistance 
Resistance of Passenger Belt Tensioner Ignitor Loop 1st Stage. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SPN 4824 Side Bag Ignitor Loop 1 - Left - Resistance 
Resistance of Side Bag Ignitor Loop 1 - Left. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SPN 4825 Side Bag Ignitor Loop 2 - Left - Resistance 
Resistance of Side Bag Ignitor Loop 2 - Left. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SPN 4826 Side Bag Ignitor Loop 1 - Right - Resistance 
Resistance of Side Bag Ignitor Loop 1 - Right. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SPN 4827 Side Bag Ignitor Loop 2 - Right - Resistance 
Resistance of Side Bag Ignitor Loop 2 - Right. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 752 -
SPN 4828 Special Ignitor Loop 1 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 1. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SPN 4829 Special Ignitor Loop 2 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 2. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SPN 4830 Special Ignitor Loop 3 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 3. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SPN 4831 Special Ignitor Loop 4 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 4. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SPN 4832 Special Ignitor Loop 5 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 5. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 753 -
SPN 4833 Special Ignitor Loop 6 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 6. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SPN 4834 Special Ignitor Loop 7 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 7. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SPN 4835 Special Ignitor Loop 8 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 8. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SPN 4836 Special Ignitor Loop 9 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 9. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SPN 4837 Special Ignitor Loop 10 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 10. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 754 -
SPN 4838 Special Ignitor Loop 11 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 11. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SPN 4839 Special Ignitor Loop 12 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 12. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SPN 4840 Special Ignitor Loop 13 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 13. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SPN 4841 Special Ignitor Loop 14 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 14. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SPN 4842 Special Ignitor Loop 15 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 15. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 755 -
SPN 4843 Special Ignitor Loop 16 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 16. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SPN 4844 Special Ignitor Loop 17 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 17. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SPN 4845 Special Ignitor Loop 18 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 18. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SPN 4846 Special Ignitor Loop 19 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 19. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SPN 4847 Special Ignitor Loop 20 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 20. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 756 -
SPN 4848 Special Ignitor Loop 21 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 21. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SPN 4849 Special Ignitor Loop 22 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 22. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SPN 4850 Special Ignitor Loop 23 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 23. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SPN 4851 Special Ignitor Loop 24 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 24. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SPN 4852 Special Ignitor Loop 25 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 25. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 757 -
SPN 4853 Special Ignitor Loop 26 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 26. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SPN 4854 Special Ignitor Loop 27 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 27. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SPN 4855 Special Ignitor Loop 28 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 28. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SPN 4856 Special Ignitor Loop 29 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 29. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SPN 4857 Special Ignitor Loop 30 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 30. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 758 -
SPN 4858 Special Ignitor Loop 31 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 31. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SPN 4859 Special Ignitor Loop 32 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 32. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SPN 4860 Special Ignitor Loop 33 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 33. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SPN 4861 Special Ignitor Loop 34 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 34. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SPN 4862 Special Ignitor Loop 35 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 35. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 759 -
SPN 4863 Special Ignitor Loop 36 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 36. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SPN 4864 Special Ignitor Loop 37 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 37. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SPN 4865 Special Ignitor Loop 38 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 38. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SPN 4866 Special Ignitor Loop 39 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 39. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SPN 4867 Special Ignitor Loop 40 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 40. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 760 -
SPN 4868 Special Ignitor Loop 41 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 41. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SPN 4869 Special Ignitor Loop 42 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 42. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SPN 4870 Special Ignitor Loop 43 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 43. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SPN 4871 Special Ignitor Loop 44 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 44. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SPN 4872 Special Ignitor Loop 45 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 45. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 761 -
SPN 4873 Special Ignitor Loop 46 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 46. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SPN 4874 Special Ignitor Loop 47 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 47. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SPN 4875 Special Ignitor Loop 48 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 48. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SPN 4876 Special Ignitor Loop 49 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 49. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SPN 4877 Special Ignitor Loop 50 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 50. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 762 -
SPN 4878 Special Ignitor Loop 51 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 51. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SPN 4879 Special Ignitor Loop 52 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 52. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SPN 4880 Special Ignitor Loop 53 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 53. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SPN 4881 Special Ignitor Loop 54 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 54. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SPN 4882 Special Ignitor Loop 55 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 55. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 763 -
SPN 4883 Special Ignitor Loop 56 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 56. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SPN 4884 Special Ignitor Loop 57 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 57. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SPN 4885 Special Ignitor Loop 58 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 58. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SPN 4886 Special Ignitor Loop 59 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 59. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SPN 4887 Special Ignitor Loop 60 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 60. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 764 -
SPN 4888 Special Ignitor Loop 61 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 61. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SPN 4889 Special Ignitor Loop 62 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 62. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SPN 4890 Special Ignitor Loop 63 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 63. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SPN 4891 Special Ignitor Loop 64 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 64. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SPN 4892 Special Ignitor Loop 65 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 65. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 765 -
SPN 4893 Special Ignitor Loop 66 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 66. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SPN 4894 Special Ignitor Loop 67 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 67. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SPN 4895 Special Ignitor Loop 68 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 68. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SPN 4896 Special Ignitor Loop 69 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 69. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SPN 4897 Special Ignitor Loop 70 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 70. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 766 -
SPN 4898 Special Ignitor Loop 71 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 71. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SPN 4899 Special Ignitor Loop 72 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 72. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SPN 4900 Special Ignitor Loop 73 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 73. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SPN 4901 Special Ignitor Loop 74 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 74. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SPN 4902 Special Ignitor Loop 75 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 75. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 767 -
SPN 4903 Special Ignitor Loop 76 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 76. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SPN 4904 Special Ignitor Loop 77 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 77. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SPN 4905 Special Ignitor Loop 78 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 78. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SPN 4906 Special Ignitor Loop 79 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 79. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SPN 4907 Special Ignitor Loop 80 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 80. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 768 -
SPN 4908 Special Ignitor Loop 81 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 81. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SPN 4909 Special Ignitor Loop 82 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 82. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SPN 4910 Special Ignitor Loop 83 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 83. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SPN 4911 Special Ignitor Loop 84 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 84. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SPN 4912 Special Ignitor Loop 85 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 85. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 769 -
SPN 4913 Special Ignitor Loop 86 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 86. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SPN 4914 Special Ignitor Loop 87 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 87. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SPN 4915 Special Ignitor Loop 88 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 88. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SPN 4916 Special Ignitor Loop 89 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 89. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SPN 4917 Special Ignitor Loop 90 - Resistance 
Resistance of Special Ignitor Loop 90. Since there are many different vehicle types (e.g. truck, bus, firetruck or 
ambulance), the ignitor loop configuration has a wide variation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 ohm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 ohm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64793 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 770 -
SPN 4918 Frontal Collision Sensor 1 - Type 
Type of Frontal Collision Sensor 1. 
0000 = acceleration sensor 
0001 = pressure sensor 
0010 = rollrate sensor 
0011 = sonic sensor 
0100 = fiber-optic sensor 
0101 = radar sensor 
0110 = lidar sensor 
0111 = optical sensor 
1000-1101 = Reserved 
1110 = Error - Type of sensor cannot be determined (unknown sensor) 
1111 = not available 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64792 
SPN 4919 Frontal Collision Sensor 2 - Type 
Type of Frontal Collision Sensor 2. 
0000 = acceleration sensor 
0001 = pressure sensor 
0010 = rollrate sensor 
0011 = sonic sensor 
0100 = fiber-optic sensor 
0101 = radar sensor 
0110 = lidar sensor 
0111 = optical sensor 
1000-1101 = Reserved 
1110 = Error - Type of sensor cannot be determined (unknown sensor) 
1111 = not available 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64792 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 771 -
SPN 4920 Frontal Collision Sensor 3 - Type 
Type of Frontal Collision Sensor 3. 
0000 = acceleration sensor 
0001 = pressure sensor 
0010 = rollrate sensor 
0011 = sonic sensor 
0100 = fiber-optic sensor 
0101 = radar sensor 
0110 = lidar sensor 
0111 = optical sensor 
1000-1101 = Reserved 
1110 = Error - Type of sensor cannot be determined (unknown sensor) 
1111 = not available 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64792 
SPN 4921 Frontal Collision Sensor 4 - Type 
Type of Frontal Collision Sensor 4. 
0000 = acceleration sensor 
0001 = pressure sensor 
0010 = rollrate sensor 
0011 = sonic sensor 
0100 = fiber-optic sensor 
0101 = radar sensor 
0110 = lidar sensor 
0111 = optical sensor 
1000-1101 = Reserved 
1110 = Error - Type of sensor cannot be determined (unknown sensor) 
1111 = not available 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64792 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 772 -
SPN 4922 Side Collision Sensor Front Left - Type 
Type of Side Collision Sensor Front - Left. 
0000 = acceleration sensor 
0001 = pressure sensor 
0010 = rollrate sensor 
0011 = sonic sensor 
0100 = fiber-optic sensor 
0101 = radar sensor 
0110 = lidar sensor 
0111 = optical sensor 
1000-1101 = Reserved 
1110 = Error - Type of sensor cannot be determined (unknown sensor) 
1111 = not available 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64792 
SPN 4923 Side Collision Sensor Mid Front Left - Type 
Type of Side Collision Sensor Mid Front - Left. 
0000 = acceleration sensor 
0001 = pressure sensor 
0010 = rollrate sensor 
0011 = sonic sensor 
0100 = fiber-optic sensor 
0101 = radar sensor 
0110 = lidar sensor 
0111 = optical sensor 
1000-1101 = Reserved 
1110 = Error - Type of sensor cannot be determined (unknown sensor) 
1111 = not available 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64792 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 773 -
SPN 4924 Side Collision Sensor Mid Rear Left - Type 
Type of Side Collision Sensor Mid Rear - Left. 
0000 = acceleration sensor 
0001 = pressure sensor 
0010 = rollrate sensor 
0011 = sonic sensor 
0100 = fiber-optic sensor 
0101 = radar sensor 
0110 = lidar sensor 
0111 = optical sensor 
1000-1101 = Reserved 
1110 = Error - Type of sensor cannot be determined (unknown sensor) 
1111 = not available 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64792 
SPN 4925 Side Collision Sensor Rear Left - Type 
Type of Side Collision Sensor Rear - Left. 
0000 = acceleration sensor 
0001 = pressure sensor 
0010 = rollrate sensor 
0011 = sonic sensor 
0100 = fiber-optic sensor 
0101 = radar sensor 
0110 = lidar sensor 
0111 = optical sensor 
1000-1101 = Reserved 
1110 = Error - Type of sensor cannot be determined (unknown sensor) 
1111 = not available 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64792 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 774 -
SPN 4926 Side Collision Sensor Front Right - Type 
Type of Side Collision Sensor Front - Right. 
0000 = acceleration sensor 
0001 = pressure sensor 
0010 = rollrate sensor 
0011 = sonic sensor 
0100 = fiber-optic sensor 
0101 = radar sensor 
0110 = lidar sensor 
0111 = optical sensor 
1000-1101 = Reserved 
1110 = Error - Type of sensor cannot be determined (unknown sensor) 
1111 = not available 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64792 
SPN 4927 Side Collision Sensor Mid Front Right - Type 
Type of Side Collision Sensor Mid Front - Right. 
0000 = acceleration sensor 
0001 = pressure sensor 
0010 = rollrate sensor 
0011 = sonic sensor 
0100 = fiber-optic sensor 
0101 = radar sensor 
0110 = lidar sensor 
0111 = optical sensor 
1000-1101 = Reserved 
1110 = Error - Type of sensor cannot be determined (unknown sensor) 
1111 = not available 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64792 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 775 -
SPN 4928 Side Collision Sensor Mid Rear Right - Type 
Type of Side Collision Sensor Mid Rear - Right. 
0000 = acceleration sensor 
0001 = pressure sensor 
0010 = rollrate sensor 
0011 = sonic sensor 
0100 = fiber-optic sensor 
0101 = radar sensor 
0110 = lidar sensor 
0111 = optical sensor 
1000-1101 = Reserved 
1110 = Error - Type of sensor cannot be determined (unknown sensor) 
1111 = not available 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64792 
SPN 4929 Side Collision Sensor Rear Right - Type 
Type of Side Collision Sensor Rear - Right. 
0000 = acceleration sensor 
0001 = pressure sensor 
0010 = rollrate sensor 
0011 = sonic sensor 
0100 = fiber-optic sensor 
0101 = radar sensor 
0110 = lidar sensor 
0111 = optical sensor 
1000-1101 = Reserved 
1110 = Error - Type of sensor cannot be determined (unknown sensor) 
1111 = not available 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64792 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 776 -
SPN 4930 Rear Collision Sensor 1 - Type 
Type of Rear Collision Sensor 1. 
0000 = acceleration sensor 
0001 = pressure sensor 
0010 = rollrate sensor 
0011 = sonic sensor 
0100 = fiber-optic sensor 
0101 = radar sensor 
0110 = lidar sensor 
0111 = optical sensor 
1000-1101 = Reserved 
1110 = Error - Type of sensor cannot be determined (unknown sensor) 
1111 = not available 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64792 
SPN 4931 Rear Collision Sensor 2 - Type 
Type of Rear Collision Sensor 2. 
0000 = acceleration sensor 
0001 = pressure sensor 
0010 = rollrate sensor 
0011 = sonic sensor 
0100 = fiber-optic sensor 
0101 = radar sensor 
0110 = lidar sensor 
0111 = optical sensor 
1000-1101 = Reserved 
1110 = Error - Type of sensor cannot be determined (unknown sensor) 
1111 = not available 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64792 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 777 -
SPN 4932 Rear Collision Sensor 3 - Type 
Type of Rear Collision Sensor 3. 
0000 = acceleration sensor 
0001 = pressure sensor 
0010 = rollrate sensor 
0011 = sonic sensor 
0100 = fiber-optic sensor 
0101 = radar sensor 
0110 = lidar sensor 
0111 = optical sensor 
1000-1101 = Reserved 
1110 = Error - Type of sensor cannot be determined (unknown sensor) 
1111 = not available 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64792 
SPN 4933 Rear Collision Sensor 4 - Type 
Type of Rear Collision Sensor 4. 
0000 = acceleration sensor 
0001 = pressure sensor 
0010 = rollrate sensor 
0011 = sonic sensor 
0100 = fiber-optic sensor 
0101 = radar sensor 
0110 = lidar sensor 
0111 = optical sensor 
1000-1101 = Reserved 
1110 = Error - Type of sensor cannot be determined (unknown sensor) 
1111 = not available 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64792 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 778 -
SPN 4934 Rollover Sensor - Type 
Type of Rollover Sensor. 
0000 = acceleration sensor 
0001 = pressure sensor 
0010 = rollrate sensor 
0011 = sonic sensor 
0100 = fiber-optic sensor 
0101 = radar sensor 
0110 = lidar sensor 
0111 = optical sensor 
1000-1101 = Reserved 
1110 = Error - Type of sensor cannot be determined (unknown sensor) 
1111 = not available 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64792 
SPN 4935 Frontal Collision Sensor 1 - Serial Number 
Serial Number of Frontal Collision Sensor 1. 
Data Length: Variable - up to 32 bytes followed by an "*" delimiter 
Resolution: ASCII, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 255 per byte Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64792 
SPN 4936 Frontal Collision Sensor 2 - Serial Number 
Serial Number of Frontal Collision Sensor 2. 
Data Length: Variable - up to 32 bytes followed by an "*" delimiter 
Resolution: ASCII, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 255 per byte Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64792 
SPN 4937 Frontal Collision Sensor 3 - Serial Number 
Serial Number of Frontal Collision Sensor 3. 
Data Length: Variable - up to 32 bytes followed by an "*" delimiter 
Resolution: ASCII, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 255 per byte Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64792 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 779 -
SPN 4938 Frontal Collision Sensor 4 - Serial Number 
Serial Number of Frontal Collision Sensor 4. 
Data Length: Variable - up to 32 bytes followed by an "*" delimiter 
Resolution: ASCII, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 255 per byte Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64792 
SPN 4939 Side Collision Sensor Front Left - Serial Number 
Serial Number of Side Collision Sensor Front - Left. 
Data Length: Variable - up to 32 bytes followed by an "*" delimiter 
Resolution: ASCII, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 255 per byte Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64792 
SPN 4940 Side Collision Sensor Mid Front Left - Serial Number 
Serial Number of Side Collision Sensor Mid Front - Left. 
Data Length: Variable - up to 32 bytes followed by an "*" delimiter 
Resolution: ASCII, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 255 per byte Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64792 
SPN 4941 Side Collision Sensor Mid Rear Left - Serial Number 
Serial Number of Side Collision Sensor Mid Rear - Left. 
Data Length: Variable - up to 32 bytes followed by an "*" delimiter 
Resolution: ASCII, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 255 per byte Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64792 
SPN 4942 Side Collision Sensor Rear Left - Serial Number 
Serial Number of Side Collision Sensor Rear - Left. 
Data Length: Variable - up to 32 bytes followed by an "*" delimiter 
Resolution: ASCII, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 255 per byte Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64792 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 780 -
SPN 4943 Side Collision Sensor Front Right - Serial Number 
Serial Number of Side Collision Sensor Front - Right. 
Data Length: Variable - up to 32 bytes followed by an "*" delimiter 
Resolution: ASCII, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 255 per byte Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64792 
SPN 4944 Side Collision Sensor Mid Front Right - Serial Number 
Serial Number of Side Collision Sensor Mid Front - Right. 
Data Length: Variable - up to 32 bytes followed by an "*" delimiter 
Resolution: ASCII, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 255 per byte Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64792 
SPN 4945 Side Collision Sensor Mid Rear Right - Serial Number 
Serial Number of Side Collision Sensor Mid Rear - Right. 
Data Length: Variable - up to 32 bytes followed by an "*" delimiter 
Resolution: ASCII, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 255 per byte Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64792 
SPN 4946 Side Collision Sensor Rear Right - Serial Number 
Serial Number of Side Collision Sensor Rear - Right. 
Data Length: Variable - up to 32 bytes followed by an "*" delimiter 
Resolution: ASCII, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 255 per byte Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64792 
SPN 4947 Rear Collision Sensor 1 - Serial Number 
Serial Number of Rear Collision Sensor 1. 
Data Length: Variable - up to 32 bytes followed by an "*" delimiter 
Resolution: ASCII, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 255 per byte Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64792 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 781 -
SPN 4948 Rear Collision Sensor 2 - Serial Number 
Serial Number of Rear Collision Sensor 2. 
Data Length: Variable - up to 32 bytes followed by an "*" delimiter 
Resolution: ASCII, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 255 per byte Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64792 
SPN 4949 Rear Collision Sensor 3 - Serial Number 
Serial Number of Rear Collision Sensor 3. 
Data Length: Variable - up to 32 bytes followed by an "*" delimiter 
Resolution: ASCII, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 255 per byte Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64792 
SPN 4950 Rear Collision Sensor 4 - Serial Number 
Serial Number of Rear Collision Sensor 4. 
Data Length: Variable - up to 32 bytes followed by an "*" delimiter 
Resolution: ASCII, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 255 per byte Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64792 
SPN 4951 Rollover Sensor - Serial Number 
Serial Number of Rollover Sensor. 
Data Length: Variable - up to 32 bytes followed by an "*" delimiter 
Resolution: ASCII, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 255 per byte Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64792 
SPN 4952 Driver Beltlock Status 
State of switch used to determine if Driver Beltlock is buckled. 
00 = unlocked 
01 = locked 
10 = Error - Beltlock state cannot be determined 
11 = not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64791 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 782 -
SPN 4953 Passenger Beltlock Status 
State of switch used to determine if Passenger Beltlock is buckled. 
00 = unlocked 
01 = locked 
10 = Error - Beltlock state cannot be determined 
11 = not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64791 
SPN 4954 Beltlock 3 Status 
State of switch used to determine if Beltlock 3 is buckled. 
00 = unlocked 
01 = locked 
10 = Error - Beltlock state cannot be determined 
11 = not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64791 
SPN 4955 Beltlock 4 Status 
State of switch used to determine if Beltlock 4 is buckled. 
00 = unlocked 
01 = locked 
10 = Error - Beltlock state cannot be determined 
11 = not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64791 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 783 -
SPN 4956 Beltlock 5 Status 
State of switch used to determine if Beltlock 5 is buckled. 
00 = unlocked 
01 = locked 
10 = Error - Beltlock state cannot be determined 
11 = not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64791 
SPN 4957 Beltlock 6 Status 
State of switch used to determine if Beltlock 6 is buckled. 
00 = unlocked 
01 = locked 
10 = Error - Beltlock state cannot be determined 
11 = not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64791 
SPN 4958 Beltlock 7 Status 
State of switch used to determine if Beltlock 7 is buckled. 
00 = unlocked 
01 = locked 
10 = Error - Beltlock state cannot be determined 
11 = not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64791 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 784 -
SPN 4959 Beltlock 8 Status 
State of switch used to determine if Beltlock 8 is buckled. 
00 = unlocked 
01 = locked 
10 = Error - Beltlock state cannot be determined 
11 = not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64791 
SPN 4960 Beltlock 9 Status 
State of switch used to determine if Beltlock 9 is buckled. 
00 = unlocked 
01 = locked 
10 = Error - Beltlock state cannot be determined 
11 = not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64791 
SPN 4961 Beltlock 10 Status 
State of switch used to determine if Beltlock 10 is buckled. 
00 = unlocked 
01 = locked 
10 = Error - Beltlock state cannot be determined 
11 = not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64791 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 785 -
SPN 4962 Passenger Airbag Deactivation Switch Status 
State of switch used to deactivate Passenger Airbag manually. 
00 = passenger airbag activated 
01 = passenger airbag deactivated 
10 = Error - State of deactivation switch cannot be determined 
11 = not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64791 
SPN 4963 Driver Occupant Classification System Status 
State of Occupant Classification System for driver. 
000 = empty 
001 = child 
010 = small adult 
011 = adult 
100 = large adult 
101 = reserved 
110 = Error - Classification of occupant cannot be determined 
111 = not available 
Data Length: 3 bits 
Resolution: 8 states/3 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 7 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64790 
SPN 4964 Passenger Occupant Classification System Status 
State of Occupant Classification System for passenger. 
000 = empty 
001 = child 
010 = small adult 
100 = reserved 
011 = adult 
100 = large adult 
101 = Error - Classification of occupant cannot be determined 
111 = not available 
Data Length: 3 bits 
Resolution: 8 states/3 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 7 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64790 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 786 -
SPN 4965 Occupant Classification System 3 Status 
State of Occupant Classification System for seat position 3. 
00 = empty 
01 = occupied 
10 = Error - Classification cannot be determined 
11 = not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64790 
SPN 4966 Occupant Classification System 4 Status 
State of Occupant Classification System for seat position 4. 
00 = empty 
01 = occupied 
10 = Error - Classification cannot be determined 
11 = not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64790 
SPN 4967 Occupant Classification System 5 Status 
State of Occupant Classification System for seat position 5. 
00 = empty 
01 = occupied 
10 = Error - Classification cannot be determined 
11 = not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64790 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 787 -
SPN 4968 Occupant Classification System 6 Status 
State of Occupant Classification System for seat position 6. 
00 = empty 
01 = occupied 
10 = Error - Classification cannot be determined 
11 = not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64790 
SPN 4969 Occupant Classification System 7 Status 
State of Occupant Classification System for seat position 7. 
00 = empty 
01 = occupied 
10 = Error - Classification cannot be determined 
11 = not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64790 
SPN 4970 Occupant Classification System 8 Status 
State of Occupant Classification System for seat position 8. 
00 = empty 
01 = occupied 
10 = Error - Classification cannot be determined 
11 = not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64790 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 788 -
SPN 4971 Occupant Classification System 9 Status 
State of Occupant Classification System for seat position 9. 
00 = empty 
01 = occupied 
10 = Error - Classification cannot be determined 
11 = not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64790 
SPN 4972 Occupant Classification System 10 Status 
State of Occupant Classification System for seat position 10. 
00 = empty 
01 = occupied 
10 = Error - Classification cannot be determined 
11 = not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64790 
SPN 4973 Crash Type 
Type of crash event.
00001 = frontal crash 
00010 = rear crash 
00100 = side crash (left) 
01000 = side crash (right) 
10000 = rollover 
It is possible to combine different Crash Types. (e.g. frontal and side crash (left) = 00101) 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: 5 bit bit-mapped, 0 offset 
Data Range: bit-mapped Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61483 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 789 -
SPN 4974 Crash Counter 
The Crash Counter prevents other ECUs from reacting to a faulty transmission of the Crash Notification PGN and serves 
as a safety mechanism. The Crash Counter becomes incremented by 1 for every sent message, starting with "0". (15 
follows 0) 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 1 count/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61483 
SPN 4975 Crash Checksum 
The Crash Checksum is used to verify the signal path from the airbag ECU to other devices in case of a crash. 
The 4 bit checksum is the sum of the high nibble and the low nibble of the sum of the identifier, the first 7 data bytes and 
the 4 bit message counter. It is calculated as follows: 
Checksum = (Byte1 + Byte2 + Byte3 + Byte4 + Byte5 + Byte6 + Byte7 + message counter&0x0F + message ID low byte 
+ message ID mid low byte + message ID mid high byte + message ID high byte) 
Checksum = ((Checksum >> 4) + Checksum) & 0x0F 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 1 count/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61483 
(R) SPN 4976 Pitch Angle Extended Range 
The angle between the vehicle x-axis and the ground plane (i.e. rotation about the vehicle Y-axis). The pitch angle for an 
angle of ascent is reported with a positive value. This parameter is defined according to a Z-Down axis system and the 
sign of the value is in accordance to the right-hand rule, as specified in SAE J670. As specified in SAE J670, a Z-Down 
Axis System has positive X directed forward, positive Y to the right, and positive Z directed down. See SPN 3318 for an 
alternate range and resolution. 
Data Length: 3 bytes 
Resolution: 1/32768 deg/bit, -250 deg offset 
Data Range: -250 to 250.9999 deg Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61481 
(R) SPN 4977 Roll Angle Extended Range 
The angle between the vehicle y-axis and the ground plane (i.e. rotation about the X-axis). The roll angle for a roll to the 
right is reported with a positive value. Roll angle is the same for both Z-Down and Z-Up axis systems, since both systems 
have positive X axis directed forward. The sign of the value is in accordance to the right-hand rule, as specified in SAE 
J670. See SPN 3319 for an alternate range and resolution. 
Data Length: 3 bytes 
Resolution: 1/32768 deg/bit, -250 deg offset 
Data Range: -250 to 250.9999 deg Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61481 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 790 -
SPN 4978 Pitch Angle Extended Range Compensation 
Compensated mode for the pitch measurement. Compensation is the use of multiple sensors together to enhance the 
output of the pitch measurement. 
00 = On 
01 = Off 
10 = Error 
11 = Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61481 
SPN 4979 Pitch Angle Extended Range Figure of Merit 
Figure of merit for pitch angle measurement. 
00 = Pitch angle fully functional. Data is within sensor specification. 
01 = Pitch angle degraded. Data is suspect due to environmental conditions. 
10 = Error 
11 = Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61481 
SPN 4980 Roll Angle Extended Range Compensation 
Compensated mode for the roll angle measurement. Compensation is the use of multiple sensors together to enhance 
the output of the roll angle measurement. 
00 = On 
01 = Off 
10 = Error 
11 = Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61481 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 791 -
SPN 4981 Roll Angle Extended Range Figure of Merit 
Figure of merit for roll angle measurement. 
00 = Roll angle fully functional. Data is within sensor specification. 
01 = Roll angle degraded. Data is suspect due to environmental conditions. 
10 = Error 
11 = Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61481 
SPN 4982 Roll and Pitch Extended Range Measurement Latency 
Time between start of sensor processing and CAN transmission 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.5 ms/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 125 ms Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61481 
(R) SPN 4983 Pitch Rate Extended Range 
Pitch rate is the rate-of-change of the pitch angle over time, where the pitch angle vector is in the direction of travel of the
vehicle. The pitch rate for increasing ascent over time is reported with a positive value. This parameter is defined 
according to a Z-Down axis system and the sign of the value is in accordance to the right-hand rule, as specified in SAE 
J670. As specified in SAE J670, a Z-Down Axis System has positive X directed forward, positive Y to the right, and 
positive Z directed down. See SPN 3322 for an alternate range and resolution. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1/128 deg/sec per bit, -250 deg/sec offset 
Data Range: -250 to 250.992 deg/sec Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61482 
(R) SPN 4984 Roll Rate Extended Range 
Roll rate is the rate-of-change of the roll angle over time. The roll rate for increasing roll to the right is reported with a
positive value. Roll angle is the same for both Z-Down and Z-Up axis systems, since both systems have positive X axis 
directed forward. The sign of the value is in accordance to the right-hand rule, as specified in SAE J670. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1/128 deg/sec per bit, -250 deg/sec offset 
Data Range: -250 to 250.992 deg/sec Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61482 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 792 -
(R) SPN 4985 Yaw Rate Extended Range 
Yaw rate is the rate-of-change of the yaw angle over time. A positive yaw rate signal results when the object turns 
clockwise. This parameter is defined according to a Z-Down axis system and the sign of the value is in accordance to the 
right-hand rule, as specified in SAE J670. As specified in SAE J670, a Z-Down Axis System has positive X directed 
forward, positive Y to the right, and positive Z directed down. See SPN 1808 for Yaw Rate with an alternate range and 
resolution using a Z-Up Axis System. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1/128 deg/sec per bit, -250 deg/sec offset 
Data Range: -250 to 250.992 deg/sec Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61482 
SPN 4986 Pitch Rate Extended Range Figure of Merit 
Figure of merit for pitch rate measurement. 
00 = Pitch rate fully functional. Data is within sensor specification. 
01 = Pitch rate degraded. Data is suspect due to environmental conditions. 
10 = Error 
11 = Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61482 
SPN 4987 Roll Rate Extended Range Figure of Merit 
Figure of merit for roll rate measurement. 
00 = Roll rate fully functional. Data is within sensor specification. 
01 = Roll rate degraded. Data is suspect due to environmental conditions. 
10 = Error 
11 = Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61482 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 793 -
SPN 4988 Yaw Rate Extended Range Figure of Merit 
Figure of merit for yaw angle measurement. 
00 = Yaw rate fully functional. Data is within sensor specification. 
01 = Yaw rate degraded. Data is suspect due to environmental conditions. 
10 = Error 
11 = Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61482 
SPN 4989 Angular Rate Measurement Latency 
The estimated measurement latency of the measurement. 
NOTE: This is only the sensor latency and does not include any additional latencies that might exist because of the CAN 
Bus or overall system implementation. Latency is the time from sensor readings to the queuing of the message data for 
CAN transmission. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.5 ms/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 125 ms Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61482 
SPN 4990 Battery Charger 1 State 
A state of the battery charger connected to the main battery.
0 - Idling. The power line or the battery is disconnected from the charger. 
1 - Charging the battery. 
2 - Stand-by or maintaining the battery charge. 
3 to 12 - Reserved 
13 - Battery failure. An error condition due to the battery state (high temperature, etc.) 
14 - Charger failure. An error condition due to the charger state. 
15 - Not available. 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64789 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 794 -
SPN 4991 Battery Charger 1 Power Line State 
A state of the battery charger connection to the power line for the charger connected to the main battery. 
0 - Disconnected. The power line is disconnected from the charger. 
1 - Connected. The power line is connected to the charger. 
2 - Error 
3 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64789 
SPN 4992 Battery Charger 1 Output Voltage 
Output voltage measured on the battery terminals of the battery charger connected to the main battery. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.05 V/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3212.75 V Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64789 
SPN 4993 Battery Charger 1 Output Current 
Output current of the battery charger connected to the main battery. If positive, this parameter shows the charging current 
of the battery charger connected to the main battery. Otherwise, if the charger hardware permits, this parameter 
represents the current consumed by the battery charger ECU from the main battery. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.05 A/bit, -1600 A offset 
Data Range: -1600 to 1612.75 A Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64789 
SPN 4994 Battery Charger 2 State 
A state of the offline battery charger connected to the auxiliary battery.
0 - Idling. The power line or the battery is disconnected from the charger. 
1 - Charging the battery. 
2 - Stand-by or maintaining the battery charge. 
3 to 12 - Reserved 
13 - Battery failure. An error condition due to the battery state (high temperature, etc.) 
14 - Charger failure. An error condition due to the charger state. 
15 - Not available. 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64788 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 795 -
SPN 4995 Battery Charger 2 Power Line State 
A state of the battery charger connection to the power line for the charger connected to the auxiliary battery. 
0 - Disconnected. The power line is disconnected from the charger. 
1 - Connected. The power line is connected to the charger. 
2 - Error 
3 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64788 
SPN 4996 Battery Charger 2 Output Voltage 
Output voltage measured on the battery terminals of the offline battery charger connected to the auxiliary battery. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.05 V/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3212.75 V Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64788 
SPN 4997 Battery Charger 2 Output Current 
Output current of the battery charger connected to the main battery. If positive, this parameter shows the charging current 
of the battery charger connected to the main battery. Otherwise, if the charger hardware permits, this parameter 
represents the current consumed by the battery charger ECU from the main battery. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.05 A/bit, -1600 A offset 
Data Range: -1600 to 1612.75 A Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64788 
SPN 4998 Magnet Boost Time 
The duration of time after the activation of the magnet circuit that a relatively high current is sent to the magnet for 
material pick up operations. This time is called boost time. After the boost time expires, a lower operation current is sent 
to the magnet to hold the material. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.25 s/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 62.5 s Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64787 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 796 -
SPN 4999 Magnet Rated Power 
The rated power that the magnet can accept during material holding operations. Note that the magnet may experience 
more power over short intervals, such as during initial activation of the magnet circuit to pick up material. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.5 kW/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 32,127.5 kW Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64787 
SPN 5000 Generator Overheat Status 
The Status of Generator being Overheated. 
00 = Not Overheat 
01 = Overheat 
10 = Error 
11 = Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64786 
SPN 5001 Genset System Output Voltage Range Status 
Status of generator voltage in or out of desired operating range. 
00 = Out of Range
01 = In Range 
10 = Error 
11 = Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64786 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 797 -
SPN 5002 Reverse Current Range Setting 
The operator setting for the Reverse Current. The setting defines the maximum reverse current. The actual current limits 
are specific to the application. 
00000 = 1 
00001 = 2 
00010 = 3 
00011 = 4 
00100 = 5 
00101 = 6 
00110 = 7 
00111 = 8 
01000 = 9 
01001 = 10 
01010 =11 
01011 =12 
01100 = 13 
01101 = 14 
01110 = 15 
01111 = 16 
10000-11101 = Not used 
11110 = Error 
11111 = Not Available 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: 32 states/5 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64786 
SPN 5003 Grapple/Magnet Selection Switch 
This is a switch that can be used to select either the Grapple or Magnet function of the material handler machine. 
00 = Grapple Selected 
01 = Magnet Selected 
10 = Error 
11 = Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64786 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 798 -
SPN 5004 Genset Softstart Active Status 
The Genset Softstart Active Status refers to the status of the genset softstart relay. The moment the Genset System is 
started, this relay is activated. As a result, the hydraulic power is hold on for a short period of time, and this relay will be
turned off once the genset hydraulic power become stable. 
00 = Off 
01 = On 
10 = Error 
11 = Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64786 
SPN 5005 Genset Enable Active Status 
Status of the Genset Enable Relay that enables or disables the Genset. 
00 = Not Enabled 
01 = Enabled 
10 = Error 
11 = Not Avaialble 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64786 
SPN 5006 Voltage Monitor Active Status 
Status of Voltage Monitor Relay. When it is activated, the Generator Voltage Monitor is connected to the generator output 
line so that the generator output voltage range could be monitored. 
00 = Monitor is Off 
01 = Monitor is On 
10 = Error 
11 = Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64786 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 799 -
SPN 5007 Generator Duty Cycle Exceeded Status 
The status of the duty cycle of the generator usage, indicating if the generator has been on for too much time within a 
defined time window. The duty cycle is the ratio of the time the generator is on and the time the generator is off within a 
time window. 
00 = Duty Cycle Not Exceed 
01 = Duty Cycle Exceed 
10 = Error 
11 = Not Avaiable 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64786 
SPN 5008 Magnet Forward Current 
The forward current being supplied by the generator to the electric magnet to create a magnet field to lift material. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1 A/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 64,255 Amps Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61484 
SPN 5009 Magnet Reverse Current 
A reverse current being supplied to the electric magnet to reduce the forward current generated magnet field as quick as 
possible so that the magnet can release material as fast as possible. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 A/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 A Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61484 
SPN 5010 Material Lift Switch 
This is a switch that can be used to enable the lift functionality of the Material Handler machine. When it is activated, the 
magnet is energized to pick up material. 
00 = Don't Lift 
01 = Lift 
10 = Error 
11 = Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61484 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 800 -
SPN 5011 Material Drop Switch 
This is a switch that can be used to enable the drop functionality of the Material Handler machine. 
00 = Don't Drop 
01 = Drop 
10 = Error 
11 = Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61484 
SPN 5012 Generator Current Boost Active Status 
Status of generator current boost relay that can boost the generator output current for picking-up material operations. 
When this relay is "on", the generator is generating the maximum current for the material handler machine to pick-up 
material. When the relay is off, the genetator is generating normal current for the material handler machine to hold 
material.
00 = Off 
01 = On 
10 = Error 
11 = Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61484 
SPN 5013 Material Lift Active Status 
The status of Material Lift Relay. When it is on, the generator generates forward direction current so that the material 
handler machine can pick up material. 
00 = Off 
01 = On 
10 = Error 
11 = Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61484 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 801 -
SPN 5014 Material Drop Active Status 
The status of Material Drop Relay. When it is on, the generator generates reverse direction current so that the material 
handler machine can release material. 
00 = Off 
01 = On 
10 = Error 
11 = Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61484 
SPN 5015 Momentary Engine Maximum Power Enable 
Momentarily Requesting highest torque map from the engine control 
00 not requesting maximum power available 
01 momentarily requesting maximum power available 
10 fault 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61442 
SPN 5019 Engine Exhaust Gas Recirculation 1 Outlet Pressure 
EGR outlet pressure is measured immediately after the EGR valve. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 2 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 500 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 27 
PGN reference: 64961 
SPN 5020 Engine Exhaust Gas Recirculation 1 Mixer Intake Temperature 
The temperature of the EGR gas entering the intake mixer, measured after the intake throttle when provided. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 27 
PGN reference: 64870 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 802 -
SPN 5021 Momentary Engine Maximum Power Enable Feedback 
Momentarily requesting Engine Maximum Power Enable - feature support feedback 
00 disabled 
01 supported
10 reserved 
11 don't care 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61443 
SPN 5022 Forward Collision Warning 
This parameter indicates if a collision is imminent and strong driver reaction either by braking hard or by an avoidance 
maneuver are imperative to prevent a collision.
00 No warning 
01 Collision is imminent 
10 Error indicator 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65135 
SPN 5023 ACC usage demand 
This parameter indicates the drivers demand to activate or deactivate ACC keeping distance control. 
00 driver demand for not using ACC distance keeping control 
01 driver demand for using ACC distance keeping control 
10 reserved 
11 don't care 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65105 
SPN 5024 Aftertreatment 1 Intake Gas NOx Sensor Heater Ratio 
Heater ratio to determine temperature at sensor tip. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.001/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 64.255 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64785 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 803 -
SPN 5025 Aftertreatment 1 Intake Gas NOx Sensor New part deviation NOx Gain 
New part deviation NOx_Gain to correct (recalculate) sensor signal on the Engine ECU side. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 %/bit, -100 offset 
Data Range: -100 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64785 
SPN 5026 Aftertreatment 1 Intake Gas NOx Sensor New part deviation NOx Offset 
New part deviation NOx_Offset to correct (recalculate) sensor signal on the Engine ECU side. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 ppm/bit, -125 ppm offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 ppm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64785 
SPN 5027 Aftertreatment 1 Intake Gas NOx Sensor Correction of Pressure Lambda 
Correction of pressure Lambda-signal to correct (recalculate) sensor signal on the Engine ECU side. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.5%/bar per bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 125%/bar Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64784 
SPN 5028 Aftertreatment 1 Intake Gas NOx Sensor Correction of Pressure NOx 
Correction of pressure NOx-signal to correct (recalculate) sensor signal on the Engine ECU side. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.5%/bar per bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 125%/bar Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64784 
SPN 5029 Aftertreatment 1 Intake Gas NOx Sensor NO2 Correction 
Correction of NO2 at the NOx-signal to correct (recalculate) sensor signal on the Engine ECU side. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.5%/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 125% Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64784 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 804 -
SPN 5030 Aftertreatment 1 Intake Gas NOx Sensor NH3 Correction 
Correction of NH3 at the NOx-signal to correct (recalculate) sensor signal on the Engine ECU side. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.5%/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 125% Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64784 
SPN 5031 Aftertreatment 1 Outlet Gas NOx Sensor Heater Ratio 
Heater ratio to determine temperature at sensor tip. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.001/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 64.255 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64783 
SPN 5032 Aftertreatment 1 Outlet Gas NOx Sensor New Part Deviation NOx Gain 
New part deviation NOx_Gain to correct (recalculate) sensor signal on the Engine ECU side. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 %/bit, -100 offset 
Data Range: -100 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64783 
SPN 5033 Aftertreatment 1 Outlet Gas NOx Sensor New Part Deviation NOx Offset 
New part deviation NOx_Offset to correct (recalculate) sensor signal on the Engine ECU side. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 ppm/bit, -125 ppm offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 ppm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64783 
SPN 5034 Aftertreatment 1 Outlet Gas NOx Sensor Correction of Pressure Lambda 
Correction of pressure Lambda-signal to correct (recalculate) sensor signal on the Engine ECU side. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.5%/bar per bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 125%/bar Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64782 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 805 -
SPN 5035 Aftertreatment 1 Outlet Gas NOx Sensor Correction of Pressure NOx 
Correction of pressure NOx-signal to correct (recalculate) sensor signal on the Engine ECU side. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.5%/bar per bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 125%/bar Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64782 
SPN 5036 Aftertreatment 1 Outlet Gas NOx Sensor NO2 Correction 
Correction of NO2 at the NOx-signal to correct (recalculate) sensor signal on the Engine ECU side. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.5%/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 125% Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64782 
SPN 5037 Aftertreatment 1 Outlet Gas NOx Sensor NH3 Correction 
Correction of NH3 at the NOx-signal to correct (recalculate) sensor signal on the Engine ECU side. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.5%/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 125% Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64782 
SPN 5038 Aftertreatment 2 Intake Gas NOx Sensor Heater Ratio 
Heater ratio to determine temperature at sensor tip. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.001/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 64.255 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64781 
SPN 5039 Aftertreatment 2 Intake Gas NOx Sensor New part deviation NOx Gain 
New part deviation NOx_Gain to correct (recalculate) sensor signal on the Engine ECU side. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 %/bit, -100 offset 
Data Range: -100 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64781 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 806 -
SPN 5040 Aftertreatment 2 Intake Gas NOx Sensor New part deviation NOx Offset 
New part deviation NOx_Offset to correct (recalculate) sensor signal on the Engine ECU side. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 ppm/bit, -125 ppm offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 ppm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64781 
SPN 5041 Aftertreatment 2 Intake Gas NOx Sensor Correction of pressure Lambda 
Correction of pressure Lambda-signal to correct (recalculate) sensor signal on the Engine ECU side. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.5%/bar per bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 125%/bar Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64780 
SPN 5042 Aftertreatment 2 Intake Gas NOx Sensor Correction of pressure Nox 
Correction of pressure NOx-signal to correct (recalculate) sensor signal on the Engine ECU side. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.5%/bar per bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 125%/bar Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64780 
SPN 5043 Aftertreatment 2 Intake Gas NOx Sensor NO2 Correction 
Correction of NO2 at the NOx-signal to correct (recalculate) sensor signal on the Engine ECU side. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.5%/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 125% Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64780 
SPN 5044 Aftertreatment 2 Intake Gas NOx Sensor NH3 Correction 
Correction of NH3 at the NOx-signal to correct (recalculate) sensor signal on the Engine ECU side. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.5%/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 125% Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64780 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 807 -
SPN 5045 Aftertreatment 2 Outlet Gas NOx Sensor Heater Ratio 
Heater ratio to determine temperature at sensor tip. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.001/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 64.255 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64779 
SPN 5046 Aftertreatment 2 Outlet Gas NOx Sensor New part deviation NOx Gain 
New part deviation NOx_Gain to correct (recalculate) sensor signal on the Engine ECU side. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 %/bit, -100 offset 
Data Range: -100 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64779 
SPN 5047 Aftertreatment 2 Outlet Gas NOx Sensor New part deviation NOx Offset 
New part deviation NOx_Offset to correct (recalculate) sensor signal on the Engine ECU side. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 ppm/bit, -125 ppm offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 ppm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64779 
SPN 5048 Aftertreatment 2 Outlet Gas NOx Sensor Correction of pressure Lambda 
Correction of pressure Lambda-signal to correct (recalculate) sensor signal on the Engine ECU side. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.5%/bar per bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 125%/bar Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64778 
SPN 5049 Aftertreatment 2 Outlet Gas NOx Sensor Correction of pressure Nox 
Correction of pressure NOx-signal to correct (recalculate) sensor signal on the Engine ECU side. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.5%/bar per bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 125%/bar Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64778 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 808 -
SPN 5050 Aftertreatment 2 Outlet Gas NOx Sensor NO2 Correction 
Correction of NO2 at the NOx-signal to correct (recalculate) sensor signal on the Engine ECU side. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.5%/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 125% Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64778 
SPN 5051 Aftertreatment 2 Outlet Gas NOx Sensor NH3 Correction 
Correction of NH3 at the NOx-signal to correct (recalculate) sensor signal on the Engine ECU side. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.5%/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 125% Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64778 
SPN 5052 Transmission Clutch/Converter Input Speed 
Rotational velocity of the input to a transmission's master clutch or torque converter. In most cases the rotational velocity 
will be the same as engine flywheel speed unless there is an intermediate device, such as a power divider, between the 
engine and the clutch/converter. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.125 rpm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 8,031.875 rpm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 5052 
PGN reference: 61452 
SPN 5053 High Resolution Engine Trip Fuel 
Fuel consumed during all or part of a journey. High resolution used for calculations and fleet management systems. See 
SPN 182 for alternate resolution. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 0.001 L/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 4,211,081.215 L Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64777 
SPN 5054 High Resolution Engine Total Fuel Used 
Accumulated amount of fuel used during vehicle operation. High resolution used for calculations and fleet management 
systems. See SPN 250 for alternate resolution. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 0.001 L/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 4,211,081.215 L Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64777 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 809 -
SPN 5055 Engine Oil Viscosity 
Dynamic viscosity of the engine oil 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.015625 Cp per bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 1003.984375 Cp Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64776 
SPN 5056 Engine Oil Density 
Density of the engine oil 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.00003052 g/cc per bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 1.961 g/cc Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64776 
SPN 5057 Cab Noise Control Command 
Command signal to change the state of the Cab Noise Control System to on-line or off-line 
00 - Take Cab Noise Control System Off Line 
01 - Bring Cab Noise Control System On Line 
10 - Reserved 
11 - Don't Care/Not Commanded 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 38912 
SPN 5058 Cab Noise Control Tuning Command 
Command values for the Tuning State of the Cab Noise Control System. The Tuning State allows the Cab Noise Control 
System to adjust certain system characteristics (e.g. to account for microphone or speaker degradation over time).
000 - Activate Manual Tuning, Wait for Save and Exit Commands 
001 - Activate Automatic Tuning, Wait for Save and Exit Commands 
010 - Activate Automatic Tuning State, Saving Parameters, Exit on Completion 
011 - Remain In Tuning, Save Current Parameters 
100 - Exit Tuning, Not Saving Parameters 
101 - Exit Tuning, Saving Parameters 
110 - Reserved 
111 - Don't Care, NOT Commanded 
Data Length: 3 bits 
Resolution: 8 states/3 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 7 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 38912 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 810 -
SPN 5059 Cab Noise Control Status 
This parameter returns the current status of the Cab Noise Control system. 
00 - Cab Noise Control System ON-Line 
01 - Cab Noise Control System OFF-Line 
10 - Error Indicator 
11 - Not Available/Not Requested 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 38656 
SPN 5060 Cab Noise Control Tuning Status 
This parameter returns the current status of tuning function of the Cab Noise Control system. When the tuning state is 
active, the Cab Noise Control System adjusts certain system characteristics (e.g. to account for sensor and/or transducer 
degradation over time). This adjustment may be automatic or under manual control. 
0000 – Manual Tuning Mode 
0001 – Manual Tuning Mode – Command Complete 
0010 – Manual Tuning Mode – Saving Data 
0011 – Reserved 
0100 – Reserved
0101 – Reserved 
0110 – Reserved 
0111 – Manual Tuning Denied – Requires Security Verification 
1000 – Automatic Tuning Mode 
1001 – Automatic Tuning Mode – Command Complete 
1010 – Automatic Tuning Mode – Saving Data 
1011 – Reserved
1100 – Reserved 
1101 – Reserved 
1110 – Tuning Mode – Error 
1111 – Not Available/Not Tuning/Not Requested 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 38656 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 811 -
SPN 5077 Engine Protect Lamp Command 
Command signal directly controlling the Engine Protect Lamp 
00 - Lamp Off 
01 - Lamp On 
10 - Reserved 
11 - Not available 
Note: SPN 987 should be used for reporting diagnostics of the Engine Protect Lamp. 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64775 
SPN 5078 Engine Amber Warning Lamp Command 
Command signal directly controlling the Engine Amber Warning Lamp 
00 - Lamp Off 
01 - Lamp On 
10 - Reserved 
11 - Not available 
Note: SPN 624 should be used for reporting diagnostics of the Engine Amber Warning Lamp. 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64775 
SPN 5079 Engine Red Stop Lamp Command 
Command signal directly controlling the Engine Red Stop Lamp 
00 - Lamp Off 
01 - Lamp On 
10 - Reserved 
11 - Not available 
Note: SPN 623 should be used for reporting diagnostics of the Engine Red Stop Lamp. 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64775 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 812 -
SPN 5080 OBD Malfunction Indicator Lamp Command 
Command signal directly controlling the OBD Malfunction Indicator Lamp 
00 - Lamp Off 
01 - Lamp On 
10 - Reserved 
11 - Not available 
Note: SPN 1213 should be used for reporting diagnostics of the OBD Malfunction Indicator Lamp. 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64775 
SPN 5081 Engine Brake Active Lamp Command 
Command signal directly controlling the Engine Brake Active Lamp 
00 - Lamp Off 
01 - Lamp On 
10 - Reserved 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64775 
SPN 5082 Engine Oil Pressure Low Lamp Command 
Command signal directly controlling the Engine Oil Pressure Low Lamp 
00 - Lamp Off 
01 - Lamp On 
10 - Reserved 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64775 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 813 -
SPN 5083 Engine Coolant Temperature High Lamp Command 
Command signal directly controlling the Engine Coolant Temperature High Lamp 
00 - Lamp Off 
01 - Lamp On 
10 - Reserved 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64775 
SPN 5084 Engine Coolant Level Low Lamp Command 
Command signal directly controlling the Engine Coolant Level Low Lamp 
00 - Lamp Off 
01 - Lamp On 
10 - Reserved 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64775 
SPN 5085 Engine Idle Management Active Lamp Command 
Command signal directly controlling the Engine Idle Management Active Lamp 
00 - Lamp Off 
01 - Lamp On 
10 - Reserved 
11 - Not available 
Note: SPN 1661 should be used for reporting diagnostics of the Engine Idle Management Active Lamp. 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64775 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 814 -
SPN 5086 Engine Air Filter Restriction Lamp Command 
Command signal directly controlling the Engine Air Filter Restriction Lamp. 
00 - Lamp Off 
01 - Lamp On 
10 - Reserved 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64775 
SPN 5087 Vehicle Battery Voltage Low Lamp Command 
Command signal directly controlling the Vehicle Battery Voltage Low Lamp. 
00 - Lamp Off 
01 - Lamp On 
10 - Reserved 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64774 
SPN 5088 Vehicle Fuel Level Low Lamp Command 
Command signal directly controlling the Vehicle Fuel Level Low Lamp. 
00 - Lamp Off 
01 - Lamp On 
10 - Reserved 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64774 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 815 -
SPN 5089 Vehicle Air Pressure Low Lamp Command 
Command signal directly controlling the Vehicle Air Pressure Low Lamp. 
00 - Lamp Off 
01 - Lamp On 
10 - Reserved 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64774 
SPN 5090 Vehicle HVAC Recirculation Lamp Command 
Command signal directly controlling the Vehicle HVAC Recirculation Lamp. 
00 - Lamp Off 
01 - Lamp On 
10 - Reserved 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64774 
SPN 5091 Vehicle Battery Charging Lamp Command 
Command signal directly controlling the Vehicle Battery Charging Lamp. 
00 - Lamp Off 
01 - Lamp On 
10 - Reserved 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64774 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 816 -
SPN 5093 Engine Protect Lamp Data 
This parameter provides measured data from the Engine Protect Lamp. 
00 - Lamp deactivated (Off) 
01 - Lamp activated (On) 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64773 
SPN 5094 Engine Amber Warning Lamp Data 
This parameter provides measured data from the Engine Amber Warning Lamp. 
00 - Lamp deactivated (Off) 
01 - Lamp activated (On) 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64773 
SPN 5095 Engine Red Stop Lamp Data 
This parameter provides measured data from the Engine Red Stop Lamp. 
00 - Lamp deactivated (Off) 
01 - Lamp activated (On) 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64773 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 817 -
SPN 5096 OBD Malfunction Indicator Lamp Data 
This parameter provides measured data from the OBD Malfunction Indicator Lamp. 
00 - Lamp deactivated (Off) 
01 - Lamp activated (On) 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64773 
SPN 5097 Engine Brake Active Lamp Data 
This parameter provides measured data from the Engine Brake Active Lamp. 
00 - Lamp deactivated (Off) 
01 - Lamp activated (On) 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64773 
SPN 5098 Compression Brake Enable Switch Indicator Lamp Data 
This parameter provides measured data from the Compression Brake Enable Switch Indicator Lamp. 
00 - Lamp deactivated (Off) 
01 - Lamp activated (On) 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64773 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 818 -
SPN 5099 Engine Oil Pressure Low Lamp Data 
This parameter provides measured data from the Engine Oil Pressure Low Lamp. 
00 - Lamp deactivated (Off) 
01 - Lamp activated (On) 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64773 
SPN 5100 Engine Coolant Temperature High Lamp Data 
This parameter provides measured data from the Engine Coolant Temperature High Lamp. 
00 - Lamp deactivated (Off) 
01 - Lamp activated (On) 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64773 
SPN 5101 Engine Coolant Level Low Lamp Data 
This parameter provides measured data from the Engine Coolant Level Low Lamp. 
00 - Lamp deactivated (Off) 
01 - Lamp activated (On) 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64773 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 819 -
SPN 5102 Engine Idle Management Active Lamp Data 
This parameter provides measured data from the Engine Idle Management Active Lamp. 
00 - Lamp deactivated (Off) 
01 - Lamp activated (On) 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64773 
SPN 5103 Engine Air Filter Restriction Lamp Data 
This parameter provides measured data from the Engine Air Filter Restriction Lamp. 
00 - Lamp deactivated (Off) 
01 - Lamp activated (On) 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64773 
SPN 5104 Vehicle Battery Voltage Low Lamp Data 
This parameter provides measured data from the Vehicle Battery Voltage Low Lamp. 
00 - Lamp deactivated (Off) 
01 - Lamp activated (On) 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64772 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 820 -
SPN 5105 Vehicle Fuel Level Low Lamp Data 
This parameter provides measured data from theVehicle Fuel Level Low Lamp. 
00 - Lamp deactivated (Off) 
01 - Lamp activated (On) 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64772 
SPN 5106 Vehicle Air Pressure Low Lamp Data 
This parameter provides measured data from the Vehicle Air Pressure Low Lamp. 
00 - Lamp deactivated (Off) 
01 - Lamp activated (On) 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64772 
SPN 5107 Vehicle HVAC Recirculation Lamp Data 
This parameter provides measured data from the Vehicle HVAC Recirculation Lamp. 
00 - Lamp deactivated (Off) 
01 - Lamp activated (On) 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64772 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 821 -
SPN 5108 Vehicle Battery Charging Lamp Data 
This parameter provides measured data from the Vehicle Battery Charging Lamp. 
00 - Lamp deactivated (Off) 
01 - Lamp activated (On) 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64772 
SPN 5125 Sensor supply voltage 7 
Sensor ECU supply voltage 7 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.05 V/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3212.75 V Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64924 
SPN 5126 Sensor supply voltage 8 
Sensor ECU supply voltage 8 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.05 V/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3212.75 V Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64924 
SPN 5127 Sensor supply voltage 9 
Sensor ECU supply voltage 9 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.05 V/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3212.75 V Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 
SPN 5128 Sensor supply voltage 10 
Sensor ECU supply voltage 10 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.05 V/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3212.75 V Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 822 -
SPN 5129 Sensor supply voltage 11 
Sensor ECU supply voltage 11 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.05 V/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3212.75 V Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 
SPN 5130 Sensor supply voltage 12 
Sensor ECU supply voltage 12 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.05 V/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3212.75 V Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 
SPN 5131 Sensor supply voltage 13 
Sensor ECU supply voltage 13 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.05 V/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3212.75 V Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 
SPN 5132 Sensor supply voltage 14 
Sensor ECU supply voltage 14 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.05 V/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3212.75 V Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 
SPN 5133 Sensor supply voltage 15 
Sensor ECU supply voltage 15 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.05 V/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3212.75 V Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 823 -
SPN 5134 Sensor supply voltage 16 
Sensor ECU supply voltage 16 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.05 V/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3212.75 V Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 
SPN 5135 Sensor supply voltage 17 
Sensor ECU supply voltage 17 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.05 V/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3212.75 V Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 
SPN 5136 Sensor supply voltage 18 
Sensor ECU supply voltage 18 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.05 V/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3212.75 V Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 
(R) SPN 5137 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 1 Heater Command 
Command for the Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank Heater. A value of 0% means no heating applied, a value 
of 100% means full heating applied. See SPN 3363 for the measured value of the Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid 
Tank Heater. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64832 
(R) SPN 5138 Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 1 Heater Command 
Command for the Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank Heater. A value of 0% means no heating applied, a value 
of 100% means full heating applied. See SPN 4431 for the measured value of the Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid 
Tank Heater. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64826 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 824 -
SPN 5141 Low Voltage Disconnect Manual Disconnect State 
State of the Manual Disconnect hardwired input to the LVD. Manual Disconnect is used to override the LVD's normal 
activlty and dicconnect all of the LVD outputs. Manual Disconnect is lower in priority than the Manual Connect hardwired 
input, but has priority over all LVD Set Operating Mode messages. 
00 - Input off 
01 - Input on 
10 - Error 
11 - Not installed 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64769 
SPN 5142 Low Voltage Disconnect Manual Connect State 
State of the Manual Connect hardwired input to the LVD. Manual Connect is used to override the LVD's normal activlty 
and connect all of the LVD outputs. Manual Connect has priority over the Manual Dicsonnect hardwired input and all LVD 
Set Operating Mode messages. 
00 - Input off 
01 - Input on 
10 - Error 
11 - Not installed 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64769 
SPN 5143 Low Voltage Disconnect Current Operating Mode 
Current operating mode of the LVD. The current mode is dependent on the state of the Manual Disconnect/Connect 
hardwired inputs and on the most-recent received LVD Set Desired Operating Mode message. The hardwired inputs 
have priority over the LVD Set Operating Mode message, and Connects have priority over Disconnects. 
0000 - Automatic 
0001-0011 - Reserved 
0100 - Manual Disconnect via J1939 request 
0101 - Manual Connect via J1939 request 
0110-0111 - Reserved 
1000 - Manual Disconnect via hardwired input 
1001 - Manual Connect via hardwired input 
1010-1110 - Reserved 
1111 - Not available 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64769 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 825 -
SPN 5144 Low Voltage Disconnect Output #3 State 
State of the Output #3 from the LVD. Output #3 controls an external load or relay. This external load could be 
independent of the main output, and may apply to an application specific circuit or zone. If the LVD supports prioritization, 
this circuit will disconnect before Output #2 and reconnect after Output #2. 
0000 - Output off or disconnected 
0001 - Output on or connected 
0010 - Disconnect alarm expired, output off or disconnected 
0011 - Disconnect pending, alarm active 
0100 - Connect pending, alarm active 
0101-1101 - Reserved 
1110 - Output fault 
1111 - Not available or not installed 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64769 
SPN 5145 Low Voltage Disconnect Output #2 State 
State of the Output #2 from the LVD. Output #2 controls an external load or relay. This external load could be 
independent of the main output, and may apply to an application specific circuit or zone. If the LVD supports prioritization, 
this circuit will disconnect before Output #1 and reconnect after Output #1. 
0000 - Output off or disconnected 
0001 - Output on or connected 
0010 - Disconnect alarm expired, output off or disconnected 
0011 - Disconnect pending, alarm active 
0100 - Connect pending, alarm active 
0101-1101 - Reserved 
1110 - Output fault 
1111 - Not available or not installed 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64769 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 826 -
SPN 5146 Low Voltage Disconnect Output #1 State 
State of the Output #1 from the LVD. Output #1 controls an external load or relay. This external load could be 
independent of the main output, and may apply to an application specific circuit or zone. If the LVD supports prioritization, 
this circuit will disconnect before the Vout output and reconnect after the Vout output. 
0000 - Output off or disconnected 
0001 - Output on or connected 
0010 - Disconnect alarm expired, output off or disconnected 
0011 - Disconnect pending, alarm active 
0100 - Connect pending, alarm active 
0101-1101 - Reserved 
1110 - Output fault 
1111 - Not available or not installed 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64769 
SPN 5147 Low Voltage Disconnect Vout Output State 
State of the Vout Output from the LVD. Vout is the LVD's main internal, controllable, high-current output. If the LVD 
supports prioritization, this circuit will be the last to disconnect and the first to reconnect. 
0000 - Output off or disconnected 
0001 - Output on or connected 
0010 - Disconnect alarm expired, output off or disconnected 
0011 - Disconnect pending, alarm active 
0100 - Connect pending, alarm active 
0101-1101 - Reserved 
1110 - Output fault 
1111 - Not available or not installed 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64769 
SPN 5148 Low Voltage Disconnect Temperature 
Internal temperature of the LVD. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 deg C/bit, -40 deg C offset 
Data Range: -40 to 210 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64769 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 827 -
SPN 5149 Low Voltage Disconnect Desired Operating Mode 
Desired Operating Mode of the LVD. Used to issue a J1939 request to the LVD to change modes. 
0000 - Automatic 
0001-0011 - Reserved 
0100 - Manual Disconnect 
0101 - Manual Connect 
0110-1110 - Reserved 
1111 - No change 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 38400 
(R) SPN 5245 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 1 Low Level Indicator 
The desired illumination of the driver's warning indicator for diesel exhaust fluid (DEF) tank low level. 
000 Off 
001 On – solid 
010 reserved for SAE assignment 
011 reserved for SAE assignment 
100 On – fast blink (1 HZ) 
101 reserved for SAE assignment 
110 reserved for SAE assignment 
111 not available 
Data Length: 3 bits 
Resolution: 8 states/3 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 7 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65110 
(R) SPN 5246 Aftertreatment SCR Operator Inducement Severity 
The severity of operator inducement for anomalies with the SCR system, such as tampering, low DEF quality, and DEF 
tank level. Higher numerical levels indicate more severe levels of inducement. Level 1 is the least severe. 
000 - No Inducement Active 
001 - Inducement Level 1 ... EPA defined SCR Inducement - DEF Warning .................... FMI 15 
010 - Inducement Level 2 … DEF Warning, second level (optional)....................................FMI 15 
011 - Inducement Level 3 ... EPA defined SCR Inducement - Engine Derate .....................FMI 16 
100 - Inducement Level 4 ... Severe Inducement Pre-Trigger (optional)..............................FMI 16 
101 - Inducement Level 5 ... EPA defined SCR Inducement - Severe Inducement............. FMI 0 
110 - Temporary Override of Inducement - The SCR inducement has been temporarily interrupted. 
111 - Not Available / Not Supported 
When SPN 5246 is used in a DTC the recommended FMI usage is as shown. 
Reference EPA cisd-09-04 SCR Guidance document for more information. 
Data Length: 3 bits 
Resolution: 8 states/3 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 7 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65110 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 828 -
SPN 5252 Engine Exhaust Gas Recirculation 2 Differential Pressure 
Differential Pressure across the Exhaust Gas Recirculation 2 (EGR2) system. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1/128 kPa/bit, -250 kPa offset 
Data Range: -250 kPa TO 251.99 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64768 
SPN 5253 Engine Exhaust Gas Recirculation 2 Intake Pressure 
EGR2 intake gauge pressure is measured after EGR2 cooler and before EGR2 valve 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 2 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 500 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64768 
SPN 5254 Engine Exhaust Gas Recirculation 2 Outlet Absolute Pressure 
Absolute Pressure immediately after the EGR2 valve 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6,425.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64768 
SPN 5255 Engine Exhaust Gas Recirculation 2 Temperature 
Temperature of Recirculated Exhaust Gas of EGR2 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64767 
SPN 5256 Engine Exhaust Gas Recirculation 2 Mixer Intake Temperature 
The temperature of the EGR gas entering the intake of EGR2 system mixer. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64767 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 829 -
SPN 5257 Engine Exhaust Gas Recirculation 2 (EGR2) Mass Flow Rate 
Flow rate of gas through the second EGR system. Flow rate of the exhaust gas being recirculated from the 2nd EGR 
system into combustion air. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.05 kg/h per bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3212.75 kg/h Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61450 
SPN 5258 Engine Exhaust Gas Recirculation 2 (EGR2) Cooler Intake Temperature 
Exhaust Gas Recirculation 2 (EGR2) Temperature measured at EGR2 cooler intake. See SPN 5255 for Engine EGR2 
temperature.
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64766 
SPN 5259 Engine Exhaust Gas Recirculation 2 (EGR2) Cooler Intake Gas Absolute Pressure 
Exhaust Gas Recirculation 2 gas absolute pressure is measured at EGR2 cooler intake. See SPN 5253 for EGR2 
pressure measured at the EGR2 cooler outlet before the valve. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.5 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 32,127.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64766 
SPN 5260 Engine Exhaust Gas Recirculation 2 (EGR2) Cooler Efficiency 
Exhaust Gas Recirculation 2 cooler efficiency is an indication of the cooler’s ability to reduce the temperature of the 
exhaust gas that is being recirculated back to the intake. 0% = no reduction in temperature, 100% = maximum cooling. 
The EGR 2 cooler efficiency is calculated as (EGR 2 cooler intake temperature minus EGR 2 gas temperature) divided by 
(EGR 2 cooler intake temperature minus engine coolant temperature). 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64766 
SPN 5261 EGR 2 Cooler Bypass Actuator Position 
EGR2 Cooler Bypass Actuator position, where 0% = Fully Closed (no gas flowing through the bypass), and 100% = Fully 
Open..
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64766 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 830 -
SPN 5262 Engine Exhaust Gas Recirculation 2 Valve Position 
Position of EGR2 valve expressed as a percentage of full travel. 0% means the valve is closed and no exhaust gas is 
flowing into the air stream. 100% means the valve is fully opened. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.0025 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 160.6375 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64765 
SPN 5263 Engine Exhaust Gas Recirculation 2 Valve 2 Position 
The position of the second exhaust gas recirculation valve of EGR 2 expressed as a percentage of full travel. 0% means 
the valve is closed and no exhaust gas is flowing into the air stream. 100% means the valve is fully opened. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.0025 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 160.6375 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64765 
SPN 5264 Engine Exhaust Gas Recirculation 2 (EGR2) Valve Control 
Desired percentage of maximum Exhaust Gas Recirculation 2 (EGR2) valve opening. 0% means the valve is closed. 
100% means maximum opening (full gas flow). 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.0025 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 160.6375 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64762 
SPN 5265 Engine Exhaust Gas Recirculation 2 (EGR2) Valve 2 Control 
Desired percentage of maximum Exhaust Gas Recirculation 2 (EGR2) valve 2 opening. 0% means the valve is closed. 
100% means maximum opening (full gas flow). 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.0025 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 160.6375 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64762 
SPN 5266 Diesel Particulate Filter 1 Soot Signal Standard Deviation 
Standard deviation of the soot measurement from diesel particulate filter 1 soot sensor. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.0025 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 160.6375 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64761 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 831 -
SPN 5267 Diesel Particulate Filter 1 Soot Signal Maximum 
Maximum output signal level of the current soot measurement from diesel particulate filter 1 soot sensor. This is a 
statistical value, not the maximum sensing capability of the sensor. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.0025 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 160.6375 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64761 
SPN 5268 Diesel Particulate Filter 1 Soot Signal Minimum 
Minimum output signal level of the current soot measurement from diesel particulate filter 1 soot sensor. This is a 
statistical value, not the minimum sensing capability of the sensor. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.0025 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 160.6375 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64761 
SPN 5269 Diesel Particulate Filter 2 Soot Signal Standard Deviation 
Standard deviation of the soot measurement from diesel particulate filter 2 soot sensor. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.0025 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 160.6375 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64760 
SPN 5270 Diesel Particulate Filter 2 Soot Signal Maximum 
Maximum output signal level of the current soot measurement from diesel particulate filter 2 soot sensor. This is a 
statistical value, not the maximum sensing capability of the sensor. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.0025 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 160.6375 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64760 
SPN 5271 Diesel Particulate Filter 2 Soot Signal Minimum 
Minimum output signal level of the current soot measurement from diesel particulate filter 2 soot sensor. This is a 
statistical value, not the minimum sensing capability of the sensor. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.0025 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 160.6375 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64760 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 832 -
SPN 5274 Prohibit Automatic Air Suspension Control 
This parameter is an internal request to the air suspension control system to prohibit automatic air suspension control. If 
the request is accepted, response intended to be sent in ASC1 (additional status requested in ASC1), there will be no 
automatic control either for height changes or axle load distribution changes, i.e. hold current pressures in all suspension 
devices.
For example, to prohibit automatic air suspension control when a wheelchair lift is in use. 
00 No request
01 Request prohibit automatic air suspension control
10 Error indicator
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 53760 
SPN 5275 Parking Brake Actuator Fully Activated 
Signal which indicates when the parking brake actuator is fully activated. (see also SPN 70 and 619). 
00 - Parking Brake Actuator not fully activated 
01 - Parking Brake Actuator fully activated 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 5275 
PGN reference: 64964 
SPN 5276 Engine Exhaust Manifold Bank 1 Flow Balance Valve Actuator Control 
Commanded percentage of maximum Engine Exhaust Manifold Bank 1 Balance valve opening. 0% means valve is 
closed. 100% means maximum valve opening (full gas flow). 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.0025 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 160.6375 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64764 
SPN 5277 Engine Exhaust Manifold Bank 1 Flow Balance Valve Actuator Position 
Actual percentage of maximum Engine Exhaust Manifold Bank 1 Balance valve opening. 0% means valve is closed. 
100% means maximum valve opening (full gas flow). 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.0025 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 160.6375 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64763 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 833 -
SPN 5278 Engine Exhaust Manifold Bank 2 Flow Balance Valve Actuator Control 
Commanded percentage of maximum Engine Ehaust Manifold Bank 2 Balance valve opening. 0% means valve is closed. 
100% means maximum valve opening (full gas flow). 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.0025 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 160.6375 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64764 
SPN 5279 Engine Exhaust Manifold Bank 2 Flow Balance Valve Actuator Position 
Actual percentage of maximum Engine Manifold Bank 2 Balance valve opening. 0% means valve is closed. 100% means 
maximum valve opening (full gas flow). 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.0025 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 160.6375 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64763 
SPN 5280 Engine Charge Air Cooler 1 Precooler Intake Temperature 
Temperature of the combustion air measured at the charge air cooler 1 precooler intake. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64759 
SPN 5281 Engine Charge Air Cooler 1 Precooler Outlet Temperature 
Temperature of the combustion air measured at the charge air cooler 1 precooler outlet. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64759 
SPN 5282 Engine Charge Air Cooler 1 Precooler Efficiency 
Engine charge air cooler 1 (CAC1) precooler efficiency is an indication of the precooler’s ability to reduce the temperature 
of the combustion air that is being routed through the precooler. 0% = no reduction in temperature, 100% = maximum 
cooling. The CAC1 precooler efficiency is calculated as (CAC1 precooler Intake temperature minus CAC1 precooler outlet 
temperature) divided by (CAC1 precooler Intake temperature minus engine coolant temperature). This calculation 
assumes that the precooler uses engine coolant as the cooling fluid. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64759 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 834 -
SPN 5283 Engine Charge Air Cooler 1 Intake Temperature 
Temperature of the combustion air measured at the CAC 1 Intake. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64758 
SPN 5284 Engine Charge Air Cooler 1 Ambient Air Temperature 
Temperature of the air surrounding charge air cooler 1. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64758 
SPN 5285 Engine Charge Air Cooler 1 Efficiency 
Engine charge air cooler 1(CAC1) efficiency is an indication of the CAC’s ability to reduce the temperature of the 
combustion air that is being routed through the CAC1. 0% = no reduction in temperature, 100% = maximum cooling. The 
CAC1 efficiency is calculated as (CAC1 Intake temperature minus CAC1 outlet temperature) divided by (CAC1 Intake 
temperature minus CAC1 ambient air temperature). This calculation assumes that the CAC uses a measured or 
estimated ambient air temperature as the cooling fluid temperature. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64758 
SPN 5286 Engine Charge Air Cooler 2 Precooler Intake Temperature 
Temperature of the combustion air measured at the charge air cooler 2 precooler Intake. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64757 
SPN 5287 Engine Charge Air Cooler 2 Precooler Outlet Temperature 
Temperature of the combustion air measured at the charge air cooler 2 precooler outlet. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64757 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 835 -
SPN 5288 Engine Charge Air Cooler 2 Precooler Efficiency 
Engine charge air cooler 2 (CAC2) precooler efficiency is an indication of the precooler’s ability to reduce the temperature 
of the gas that is being routed through the precooler. 0% = no reduction in temperature, 100% = maximum cooling. The 
CAC2 precooler efficiency is calculated as (CAC2 precooler Intake temperature minus CAC2 precooler outlet 
temperature) divided by (CAC2 precooler Intake temperature minus engine coolant temperature). This calculation 
assumes that the CAC2 precooler uses engine coolant as the cooling fluid. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64757 
SPN 5289 Engine Charge Air Cooler 2 Intake Temperature 
Temperature of the combustion air measured at the charge air cooler 2 Intake. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64756 
SPN 5290 Engine Charge Air Cooler 2 Outlet Temperature 
Temperature of combustion air after it exits from the Charge Air Cooler 2 but before any mixing of recirculated exhaust 
gas.
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64756 
SPN 5291 Engine Charge Air Cooler 2 Ambient Air Temperature 
Temperature of the air surrounding charge air cooler 2. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64756 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 836 -
SPN 5292 Engine Charge Air Cooler 2 Efficiency 
Engine charge air cooler 2 (CAC2) is an indication of the CAC’s ability to reduce the temperature of the combustion air 
that is being routed through the CAC. 0% = no reduction in temperature, 100% = maximum cooling. The CAC2 efficiency 
is calculated as (CAC2 Intake temperature minus CAC2 outlet temperature) divided by (CAC2 Intake temperature minus 
CAC2 ambient air temperature). This calculation assumes that the CAC uses a measured or estimated ambient air 
temperature as the cooling fluid temperature. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64756 
SPN 5293 Allow Level Control During Braking Command 
This parameter overides the inhibit of level control during braking. 
00 = Disallow level control during braking (normal operation) 
01 = Allow level control during braking 
10 = Reserved 
11 = Don’t' care/take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 53760 
SPN 5294 Allow Level Control During Braking Status 
This parameter indicates if the function Allow Level Control During Braking is active. Functions is activated by SPN 5293. 
00 = Deactivated 
01 = Activated 
10 = Reserved 
11 = Don’t care/take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65114 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 837 -
SPN 5295 Speed Dependent Level Control Request 
This parameter activates speed dependent level control in suspension system. 
00 = Deactivate 
01 = Activate 
10 = Reserved 
11 = Don’t care/take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 53760 
SPN 5296 Speed Dependant Level Control Status 
This parameter indicates if the function Speed Dependant Level Control is active. The function is activated by SPN 5295. 
00 = Inactive 
01 = Active 
10 = Reserved 
11 = Don’t' care/take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65114 
SPN 5312 Commanded Engine Intake Manifold Pressure 
Provides the commanded set point value for the engine intake manifold pressure. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.125 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to +8031.875 kPa (0 to 1164.62 psi) Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64916 
SPN 5313 Commanded Engine Fuel Rail Pressure 
Provides the commanded set point value for the engine fuel rail pressure 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1/256 MPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 251 MPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64765 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 838 -
SPN 5314 Commanded Engine Fuel Injection Control Pressure 
Provides the commanded set point value for the engine fuel injection control pressure. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1/256 MPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 251 MPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64765 
SPN 5315 Aftertreatment 2 Warm Up Diesel Oxidation Catalyst Intake Temperature 
Temperature of engine combustion byproducts entering the warm up Diesel Oxidation Catalyst in exhaust bank 2. This 
diesel parameter should be used with engines fueled by diesel fuel (not gaseous fuel like natural gas or propane). A 
separate parameter has been defined for gas fueled engines. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64749 
SPN 5316 Aftertreatment 2 Warm Up Diesel Oxidation Catalyst Outlet Temperature 
Temperature of engine combustion byproducts leaving the warm up Diesel Oxidation Catalyst in exhaust bank 2. This 
diesel parameter should be used with engines fueled by diesel fuel (not gaseous fuel like natural gas or propane). A 
separate parameter has been defined for gas fueled engines. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64749 
SPN 5323 Engine Fuel Control Control Mode 
Indicates whether the Engine Fuel Control System is in open loop or closed loop. 
00 Open loop 
01 Closed loop 
10 SAE reserved 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64981 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 839 -
SPN 5324 Engine Glow Plug 1 
Status of the engine glow plug 1. 
00 - Inactive 
01 - Active 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 
SPN 5325 Engine Glow Plug 2 
Status of the engine glow plug 2. 
00 - Inactive 
01 - Active 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 
SPN 5326 Engine Glow Plug 3 
Status of the engine glow plug 3. 
00 - Inactive 
01 - Active 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 
SPN 5327 Engine Glow Plug 4 
Status of the engine glow plug 4. 
00 - Inactive 
01 - Active 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 840 -
SPN 5328 Engine Glow Plug 5 
Status of the engine glow plug 5. 
00 - Inactive 
01 - Active 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 
SPN 5329 Engine Glow Plug 6 
Status of the engine glow plug 6. 
00 - Inactive 
01 - Active 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 
SPN 5330 Engine Glow Plug 7 
Status of the engine glow plug 7. 
00 - Inactive 
01 - Active 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 
SPN 5331 Engine Glow Plug 8 
Status of the engine glow plug 8. 
00 - Inactive 
01 - Active 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 841 -
SPN 5332 Engine Glow Plug 9 
Status of the engine glow plug 9. 
00 - Inactive 
01 - Active 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 
SPN 5333 Engine Glow Plug 10 
Status of the engine glow plug 10. 
00 - Inactive 
01 - Active 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 
SPN 5334 Engine Glow Plug 11 
Status of the engine glow plug 11. 
00 - Inactive 
01 - Active 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 
SPN 5335 Engine Glow Plug 12 
Status of the engine glow plug 12. 
00 - Inactive 
01 - Active 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 842 -
SPN 5336 Engine Glow Plug 13 
Status of the engine glow plug 13. 
00 - Inactive 
01 - Active 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 
SPN 5337 Engine Glow Plug 14 
Status of the engine glow plug 14. 
00 - Inactive 
01 - Active 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 
SPN 5338 Engine Glow Plug 15 
Status of the engine glow plug 15. 
00 - Inactive 
01 - Active 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 
SPN 5339 Engine Glow Plug 16 
Status of the engine glow plug 16. 
00 - Inactive 
01 - Active 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 843 -
SPN 5340 Engine Glow Plug 17 
Status of the engine glow plug 17. 
00 - Inactive 
01 - Active 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 
SPN 5341 Engine Glow Plug 18 
Status of the engine glow plug 18. 
00 - Inactive 
01 - Active 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 
SPN 5342 Engine Glow Plug 19 
Status of the engine glow plug 19. 
00 - Inactive 
01 - Active 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 
SPN 5343 Engine Glow Plug 20 
Status of the engine glow plug 20. 
00 - Inactive 
01 - Active 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 844 -
SPN 5344 Transmission Warning Indicator 
Signal from transmission indicating that some aspect of its operation is not functioning correctly, and as a result, 
transmission operation may be altered or restricted. The indicator is typically a lamp. Distinctions in meaning between 
the continuous and flashing are left to the transmission manufacturer. 
00 - Transmission Warning Indicator is off 
01 - Transmission Warning Indicator is on continuously 
10 - Transmission Warning Indicator is flashing 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65098 
SPN 5345 Transmission Overheat Indicator 
Signal from transmission indicating that its fluid temperature is above normal acceptable limits, and as a result, 
transmission operation may be altered or restricted. The indicator is typically a lamp. Distinctions in meaning between 
the continuous and flashing are left to the transmission manufacturer.. 
00 - Transmission Overheat Indicator is off 
01 - Transmission Overheat Indicator is on continuously 
10 - Transmission Overheat Indicator is flashing 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64917 
SPN 5346 Driveline Retarder Overheat Indicator 
Signal from the driveline retarder indicating that its fluid temperature is above normal acceptable limits, and as a result, 
retarder operation may be altered or restricted. The indicator is typically a lamp. Distinctions in meaning between the 
continuous and flashing are left to the transmission manufacturer. 
00 - Driveline Retarder Overheat Indicator is off 
01 - Driveline Retarder Overheat Indicator is on continuously 
10 - Driveline Retarder Overheat Indicator is flashing 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65275 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 845 -
(R) SPN 5347 Lateral Acceleration Extended Range 
Indicates lateral acceleration of the vehicle (the component of vehicle acceleration vector along the Y-axis). A positive 
lateral acceleration signal results when the vehicle is accelerated to the left. This parameter is defined according to a ZUp axis system and the sign of the value is in accordance to the right-hand rule, as specified in SAE J670. As specified in 
SAE J670, a Z-Up Axis System has positive X directed forward, positive Y to the left, and positive Z directed up. See 
SPN 1809 for an alternate range and resolution. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.01 m/s² per bit, -320 m/s² offset 
Data Range: -320 to +322.55 m/s² Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61485 
(R) SPN 5348 Longitudinal Acceleration Extended Range 
Indicates longitudinal acceleration of the vehicle (the component of vehicle acceleration vector along the X-axis). A 
positive longitudinal acceleration signal results when the vehicle speed increases in the forward direction. Longitudinal 
acceleration is the same for both Z-Down and Z-Up axis systems, since both systems have positive X axis directed 
forward. The sign of the value is in accordance to the right-hand rule, as specified in SAE J670. See SPN 1810 for an 
alternate longitudinal acceleration. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.01 m/s² per bit, -320 m/s² offset 
Data Range: -320 to +322.55 m/s² Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61485 
(R) SPN 5349 Vertical Acceleration Extended Range 
Indicates vertical acceleration of the vehicle and the effect of gravity (the component of vehicle acceleration vector along 
the Z-axis). A positive vertical acceleration signal of 1 gravity results when the vehicle is stationary on a horizontal 
surface. This parameter is defined according to a Z-Up axis system and the sign of the value is in accordance to the 
right-hand rule, as specified in SAE J670. As specified in SAE J670, a Z-Up Axis System has positive X directed forward, 
positive Y to the left, and positive Z directed up. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.01 m/s² per bit, -320 m/s² offset 
Data Range: -320 to +322.55 m/s² Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61485 
SPN 5350 Lateral Acceleration Extended Range Figure of Merit 
Figure of merit for lateral acceleration measurement. 
00 = lateral acceleration is fully functional. Data is within sensor specification 
01 = lateral acceleration is degraded. Data is suspect due to enviromental conditions 
10 = error 
11 = not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61485 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 846 -
SPN 5351 Longitudinal Acceleration Extended Range Figure of Merit 
Figure of merit for longitudinal acceleration measurement. 
00 = longitudinal acceleration is fully functional. Data is within sensor specification 
01 = longitudinal acceleration is degraded. Data is suspect due to enviromental conditions 
10 = error 
11 = not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61485 
SPN 5352 Vertical Acceleration Extended Range Figure of Merit 
Figure of merit for vertical acceleration measurement. 
00 = vertical acceleration is fully functional. Data is within sensor specification 
01 = verticalacceleration is degraded. Data is suspect due to enviromental conditions 
10 = error 
11 = not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61485 
SPN 5353 Support Variable Transmission Repetition Rate for Acceleration Sensor 
Indicates which acceleration transmission rate are supported by the ECU in addition to the required 10 ms transmission 
rate.
Bit Position Transmission Rate 
1 (bit position 7.7 of PGN 61485) 0 = 20 ms rate supported 
 1 = 20 ms rate not supported
2 (bit position 7.8 of PGN 61485) Reserved for SAE assignment (set to one) 
Note: Both bits set to one indicates that the ECU only supports standard transmission rate of 10 ms. 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61485 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 847 -
SPN 5366 Engine Desired Turbocharger Compressor Bypass Actuator 1 Position 
The requested position of the Engine Turbocharger Compressor Bypass actuator by the engine ECM, where 0% 
represents bypass fully closed and 100% represents bypass fully open. 
This is the position that the device is attempting to achieve. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64931 
SPN 5367 Engine Turbocharger Compressor Bypass Actuator 1 Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the appplicable J1939-73 FMI detected in the Engine Turbocharger Compressor Bypass Actuator 1 by 
the manufacturers software. When there is no failure FMI 31 is transmitted. When there is multiple failures, the most 
severe is transmitted. 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: Binary, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64931 
SPN 5368 Engine Turbocharger Compressor Bypass Actuator 1 Temperature Status 
Used to identify the status of the Engine Turbocharger Compresssor Bypass Actuator 1 drive circuitry temperature.
Temperature excursions may affect the torque output. 
000 – High Most severe 
001 – High Least severe 
010 – In Range 
011 – Low Least severe 
100 – Low Most severe 
101 – Not Defined 
110 – Error 
111 – Not available 
Data Length: 3 bits 
Resolution: 8 states/3 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 7 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64931 
SPN 5369 Engine Turbocharger Compressor Bypass Actuator 2 command 
The command to a compressor bypass actuator 2, normalized to percent, where 0% nominally represents fully closed and 
100% represents fully open. Typically, the turbocharger compressor bypass actuator is used to keep the engine out of 
surge by metering compressed air (charge). 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.0025 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 160.6375 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64931 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 848 -
SPN 5370 Engine Desired Turbocharger Wastegate Actuator 1 Position 
The Requested Valve position of the Turbocharger Wastegate Valve 1, commanded by the engine ECM. A value of 0% 
represents fully closed and a value of 100% represents fully open. 
This is the position that the device is attempting to achieve. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65174 
SPN 5371 Engine Turbocharger Wastegate Actuator 1 Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI detected in the Engine Turbocharger Wastegate Actuator 1 by the 
manufacturers software. When there is no failure FMI 31 is transmitted. When there is multiple failures, the most severe is 
transmitted
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: Binary, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65174 
SPN 5372 Engine Turbocharger Wastegate Actuator 1 Temperature Status 
Used to identify the status of the Engine Turbocharger Wastegate Actuator 1 drive circuitry temperature. Temperature 
excursions may affect the torque output. 
000 – High Most severe 
001 – High Least severe 
010 – In Range 
011 – Low Least severe 
100 – Low Most severe 
101 – Not Defined 
110 – Error 
111 – Not available 
Data Length: 3 bits 
Resolution: 8 states/3 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 7 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65174 
SPN 5373 Engine Desired Turbocharger Wastegate Actuator 2 Position 
The Requested Valve position of the Turbocharger Wastegate Valve 2, commanded by the engine ECM. A value of 0% 
represents fully closed and a value of 100% represents fully open. 
This is the position that the device is attempting to achieve. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65174 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 849 -
SPN 5374 Engine Desired Throttle Valve 1 Position 
The desired position of the Throttle valve 1 that is regulating the fluid, usually air/fuel mixture to the engine as 
commanded by the Engine Control unit. 0% represents no supply and 100% is full supply. 
This is the position that the device is attempting to achieve. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64754 
SPN 5375 Engine Throttle Valve 1 Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the appplicable J1939-73 FMI detected in the Engine Throttle Valve 1 by the manufacturers software. 
When there is no failure FMI 31 is transmitted. When there is multiple failures, the most severe is transmitted. 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: Binary, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64754 
SPN 5376 Engine Throttle Valve 1 Temperature Status 
Used to identify the status of the Engine Throttle Valve 1 drive circuitry temperature. Temperature excursions may affect 
the torque output. 
000 – High most severe 
001 – High Least severe 
010 – In Range 
011 – Low Least severe 
100 – Low Most severe 
101 – Not Defined 
110 – Error 
111 – Not available 
Data Length: 3 bits 
Resolution: 8 states/3 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 7 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64754 
SPN 5377 Engine Desired Throttle Valve 2 Position 
The desired position of the Throttle valve 2 that is regulating the fluid, usually air/fuel mixture to the engine as 
commanded by the Engine Control unit. 0% represents no supply and 100% is full supply. 
This is the position that the device is attempting to achieve. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64754 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 850 -
SPN 5378 Engine Throttle Valve 2 Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI detected in the Engine Throttle Valve 2 by the manufacturers software. 
When there is no failure FMI 31 is transmitted. When there is multiple failures, the most severe is transmitted. 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: Binary, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64754 
SPN 5379 Engine Throttle Valve 2 Temperature status 
Used to identify the status of the Engine Throttle Valve 2 drive circuitry temperature. Temperature excursions may affect 
the torque output. 
000 – High Most severe 
001 – High Least severe 
010 – In Range 
011 – Low Least severe 
100 – Low Most severe 
101 – Not Defined 
110 – Error 
111 – Not available 
Data Length: 3 bits 
Resolution: 8 states/3 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 7 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64754 
SPN 5380 Engine Fuel Valve 1 Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI detected in the Engine Fuel Valve 1 by the manufacturers software. When 
there is no failure FMI 31 is transmitted. When there is multiple failures, the most severe is transmitted. 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: Binary, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64754 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 851 -
SPN 5381 Engine Fuel Valve 1 Temperature Status 
Used to identify the status of the Engine Fuel valve 1 drive circuitry temperature. Temperature excursions may affect the 
torque output. 
000 – High Most severe 
001 – High Least severe 
010 – In Range 
011 – Low Least severe 
100 – Low Most severe 
101 – Not Defined 
110 – Error 
111 – Not available 
Data Length: 3 bits 
Resolution: 8 states/3 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 7 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64754 
SPN 5382 Engine Fuel Valve 2 Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI detected in the Engine Fuel Valve 2 by the manufacturers software. When 
there is no failure FMI 31 is transmitted. When there is multiple failures, the most severe is transmitted. 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: Binary, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64754 
SPN 5383 Engine Fuel Valve 2 Temperature Status 
Used to identify the status of the Engine Fuel valve 2 drive circuitry temperature. Temperature excursions may affect the 
torque output. 
000 – High most severe 
001 – High Least severe 
010 – In Range 
011 – Low Least severe 
100 – Low Most severe 
101 – Not Defined 
110 – Error 
111 – Not available 
Data Length: 3 bits 
Resolution: 8 states/3 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 7 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64754 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 852 -
SPN 5384 Engine Turbocharger Wastegate Actuator 2 Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI detected in the Engine Turbocharger Wastegate Actuator 2 by the 
manufacturers software. When there is no failure FMI 31 is transmitted. When there is multiple failures, the most severe is 
transmitted
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: Binary, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64753 
SPN 5385 Engine Turbocharger Wastegate Actuator 2 Temperature Status 
Used to identify the status of the Engine Turbocharger Wastegate Actuator 2 drive circuitry temperature. Temperature 
excursions may affect the torque output. 
000 – High most severe 
001 – High Least severe 
010 – In Range 
011 – Low Least severe 
100 – Low Most severe 
101 – Not Defined 
110 – Error 
111 – Not available 
Data Length: 3 bits 
Resolution: 8 states/3 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 7 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64753 
SPN 5386 Engine Turbocharger Wastegate Actuator 1 Command 
The ccommand to a Turbocharger Wastegate actuator 1, normalized to percent, where 0% nominally represents fully 
closed (No Flow) and 100% represents fully open (Max Flow). 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.0025 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 160.6375 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61486 
SPN 5387 Engine Turbocharger Wastegate Actuator 2 Command 
The command to a Turbocharger Wastegate actuator 2, normalized to percent, where 0% nominally represents fully 
closed (No Flow) and 100% represents fully open (Max Flow). 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.0025 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 160.6375 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61486 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 853 -
SPN 5388 Engine Turbocharger Compressor Bypass Actuator 2 Position 
Measures the position of the turbocharger compressor bypass actuator 2, where 0% represents bypass fully closed and 
100% represents bypass fully open. Typically, the compressor bypass is used to lower the compressor outlet pressure 
and/or intake manifold pressure during situations where too much boost is being generated by the turbocharger. Typically, 
a compressor bypass will be plumbed from the compressor outlet or intake manifold back to the compressor inlet, with the 
compressor bypass actuator and valve in place to regulate bypass flow. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64755 
SPN 5389 Engine Desired Turbocharger Compressor Bypass Actuator 2 Position 
The desired position of the Engine Turbocharger Compressor Bypass actuator 2 by the engine ECM, where 0% 
represents bypass fully closed and 100% represents bypass fully open. 
This is the position that the device is attempting to achieve. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64755 
SPN 5390 Engine Turbocharger compressor Bypass Actuator 2 Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI detected in the Engine Turbocharger Compressor Bypass Actuator 1 by the 
manufacturers software. When there is no failure FMI 31 is transmitted. When there is multiple failures, the most severe is 
transmitted.
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: Binary, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64755 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 854 -
SPN 5391 Engine Turbocharger Compressor Bypass Actuator 2 Temperature Status 
Used to identify the status of the Engine Turbocharger Compresssor Bypass Actuator 2 drive circuitry temperature.
Temperature excursions may affect the torque output. 
000 – High most severe 
001 – High Least severe 
010 – In Range 
011 – Low Least severe 
100 – Low Most severe 
101 – Not Defined 
110 – Error 
111 – Not available 
Data Length: 3 bits 
Resolution: 8 states/3 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 7 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64755 
SPN 5398 Estimated Pumping - Percent Torque 
The calculated torque that indicates the estimated amount of torque loss due to the engine air handling system. The value 
transmitted in this parameter is included in SPN 514 (Nominal Friction - Percent Torque). The data is transmitted as a 
percent of reference engine torque (see the engine configuration message, PGN 65251). 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, -125 % offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61443 
SPN 5399 DPF Thermal Management Active 
Indicates that the exhaust temperatures have been elevated for regeneration of the diesel particulate filter aftertreatment 
system or in preparation of regeneration of the diesel particulate aftertreatment system. 
00 - DPF Thermal Management is not active 
01 - DPF Thermal Management is active 
10 - Reserved 
11 - Don't care 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61443 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 855 -
SPN 5400 SCR Thermal Management Active 
Indicates that the exhaust temperatures have been elevated for regeneration of the SCR aftertreatment system or in 
preparation of regeneration of the SCR aftertreatment system. 
00 - SCR Thermal Management is not active 
01 - SCR Thermal Management is active 
10 - Reserved 
11 - Don't care 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61443 
SPN 5402 Lift Relay Control 
Command signal used to Engage and Disengage the Lift Relay controlling a Steady-State Magnet. 
00 = Off, Disable Lift Relay Request
01 = On, Enable Lift Relay Request 
10 = Reserved 
11 = Take No Action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61484 
SPN 5403 Drop Relay Control 
Command signal used to Engage and Disengage the Drop Relay controlling a Steady-State Magnet. 
00 = Off, Disable Drop Relay Request 
01 = On, Enable Drop Relay Request 
10 = Reserved 
11 = Take No Action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61484 
SPN 5404 PTO Shutdown has Shutdown Engine 
Status signal which identifies whether or not the engine has been shutdown by the PTO shutdown system. 
00 - No 
01 - Yes 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65252 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 856 -
SPN 5405 Set Elevation Sensor #1 Reference Elevation 
Command from a display or other external device (i.e. remote switch) to the land leveling system controller instructing the 
controller to set the reference elvation based on data received from the corresponding land leveling sensor. 
00 = Do not Set Reference Elevation 
01 = Set Reference Elevation 
10 = Reserved 
11 = Don't Care / Take No Action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61453 
SPN 5406 Set Elevation Sensor #2 Reference Elevation 
Command from a display or other external device (i.e. remote switch) to the land leveling system controller instructing the 
controller to set the reference elvation based on data received from the corresponding land leveling sensor. 
00 = Do not Set Reference Elevation 
01 = Set Reference Elevation 
10 = Reserved 
11 = Don't Care / Take No Action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61453 
SPN 5407 Blade Control Mode - Left 
Indicate if the land leveling system's automatic control is active or inactive for the elevation sensor on the left side of the
blade. The "left" notation is applicable to grading machines such tractors and motor graders where "left" is the position of 
the elevation sensor as seen by the operator. 
If the left sensor is not installed, then the value communicated should be "1111". For systems with a single elevation 
sensor, the system should be flexible enough to be configured in a manner which most accurately represents what is 
installed on the machine. 
Manual: Operator controls the position of the blade as normal 
Auto: The grade control system is controlling the position of the blade without operator input 
Inactive Auto: An operating condition exists which prevents the grade control system from allowing automatic controls to 
engage. This would include conditions such as laser signal is not detected, but not faulty components. 
Error: A fault exists in the system. 
0000 = Manual 
0001 = Auto
0010 = Inactive Auto 
0011-1101 = Reserved 
1110 = Error 
1111 = Not Available 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65138 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 857 -
SPN 5408 Blade Control Mode - Right 
Indicate if the land leveling system's automatic control is active or inactive for the elevation sensor on the right side of the
blade. The "left" notation is applicable to grading machines such tractors and motor graders where "right" is the position 
of the elevation sensor as seen by the operator. 
If the right sensor is not installed, then the value communicated should be "1111". For systems with a single elevation 
sensor, the system should be flexible enough to be configured in a manner which most accurately represents what is 
installed on the machine. 
Manual: Operator controls the position of the blade as normal 
Auto: The grade control system is controlling the position of the blade without operator input 
Inactive Auto: An operating condition exists which prevents the grade control system from allowing automatic controls to 
engage. This would include conditions such as laser signal is not detected, but not faulty components. 
Error: A fault exists in the system. 
0000 = Manual 
0001 = Auto
0010 = Inactive Auto 
0011-1101 = Reserved 
1110 = Error 
1111 = Not Available 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65138 
SPN 5409 Land Leveling System Enable Status 
Communicate the enable/disable status of the Land Leveling System. 
00 = Disabled 
01= Enabled 
10 = Error 
11 = Not available / Not installed 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65138 
SPN 5410 Blade Elevation Deviation - Left 
Indicate the blade's left elevation deviation with respect to the reference elevation. Serves as an indication of how far the 
left end of the blade is above or below grade. A positive number indicates that the blade is above the desired grade. A 
negative value indicates the blade is below the desired grade. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1 mm/bit, -32000 mm offset 
Data Range: -32000 to 32255 mm (-32.000 to 32.255 m) Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64750 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 858 -
SPN 5411 Blade Elevation Deviation - Right 
Indicate the blade's right elevation deviation with respect to the reference elevation. Serves as an indication of how far 
the left end of the blade is above or below grade. A positive number indicates that the blade is above the desired grade.
A negative value indicates the blade is below the desired grade. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1 mm/bit, -32000 mm offset 
Data Range: -32000 to 32255 mm (-32.000 to 32.255 m) Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64750 
SPN 5412 Blade Reference Elevation Offset - Left 
Indicates the blade's left elevation offset with respect to the reference elevation. An offset of 0 m represents no offset 
from the reference elevation. A positive number indicates that the offset elevation is above the original reference 
elevation. A negative value indicates the offset elevation is below the original reference elevation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1 mm/bit, -32000 mm offset 
Data Range: -32000 to 32255 mm (-32.000 to 32.255 m) Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64750 
SPN 5413 Blade Reference Elevation Offset - Right 
Indicates the blade's right elevation offset with respect to the reference elevation. An offset of 0 m represents no offset 
from the reference elevation. A positive number indicates that the offset elevation is above the original reference 
elevation. A negative value indicates the offset elevation is below the original reference elevation. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1 mm/bit, -32000 mm offset 
Data Range: -32000 to 32255 mm (-32.000 to 32.255 m) Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64750 
(R) SPN 5414 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 2 Heater Command 
This is the command for the Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 2 Heater. See SPN 4372 for the measured value 
of the Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 2 Heater. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64832 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 859 -
(R) SPN 5415 Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 2 Heater Command 
This is the command for the Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 2 Heater. See SPN 4438 for the measured value 
of the Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 2 Heater. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64826 
SPN 5416 Engine Wait To Start Lamp Data 
This parameter provides measured data from the Engine Wait To Start Lamp. See SPN 1081 for the command. 
00 - Lamp deactived (off) 
01 - Lamp actived (on) 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64773 
SPN 5417 Engine Fuel Filter (Suction Side) Intake Absolute Pressure 
Absolute pressure of fuel at the intake of the fuel filter (suction side) located between the fuel tank and the fuel supply 
pump. See Figures SPN16_A & SPN16_B. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 2 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 500 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64752 
SPN 5422 Engine Intake Manifold 2 Absolute Pressure 
The absolute pressure measurement of the air intake manifold for bank 2 or the second air intake manifold. If there are 
multiple air pressure sensors in the intake stream, this is the last one in flow direction before entering the combustion 
chamber.
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 2 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 500 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64976 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 860 -
SPN 5423 Aftertreatment 1 Fuel Pump Relay Control 
Indicates how the device is controlling the aftertreatment 1 fuel pump relay. 
00 off 
01 on 
10 reserved for SAE assignment 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64869 
SPN 5424 Aftertreatment 1 Fuel Flow Diverter Valve Control 
Indicates how the device is controlling the aftertreatment 1 fuel flow diverter valve. When this valve is on it diverts fuel flow
from the Aftertreatment 1 Regeneration Device. 
00 off 
01 on 
10 reserved for SAE assignment 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64869 
SPN 5425 Aftertreatment 1 Fuel Pressure 2 Actuator Control 
Indicates how the device is controlling the aftertreatment 1 fuel pressure 2 regulating control valve. 0% = fully closed, 
100%=fully open. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.0025 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 160.6375 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64869 
SPN 5426 Aftertreatment 2 Fuel Pump Relay Control 
Indicates how the device is controlling the aftertreatment 2 fuel pump relay. 
00 off 
01 on 
10 reserved for SAE assignment 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64836 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 861 -
SPN 5427 Aftertreatment 2 Fuel Flow Diverter Valve Control 
Indicates how the device is controlling the aftertreatment 2 fuel flow diverter valve. When this valve is on it diverts fuel flow
from the Aftertreatment 2 Regeneration Device. 
00 off 
01 on 
10 reserved for SAE assignment 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64836 
SPN 5428 Aftertreatment 2 Fuel Pressure 2 Control 
Indicates how the device is controlling the aftertreatment 2 fuel pressure 2 regulating control valve. 0% = fully closed, 
100%=fully open. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.0025 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 160.6375 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64836 
SPN 5429 Engine Exhaust Gas Recirculation 2 Intake Absolute Pressure 
EGR intake absolute pressure measured before the EGR 2 valve. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6,425.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64768 
SPN 5430 Engine Exhaust Gas Recirculation 1 Intake Absolute Pressure 
EGR intake absolute pressure measured before the EGR 1 valve. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6,425.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64751 
SPN 5431 Engine Exhaust Gas Recirculation 1 Outlet Absolute Pressure (High Resolution) 
EGR outlet absolute pressure is measured after the EGR 1 valve. See SPN 5019 for 1 byte resolution. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6,425.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64751 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 862 -
SPN 5432 Memory level 
Signal which indicates that the air suspension control has memory levels selected or stored. 
Response to memory level request in ASC2 (byte 8.5). If the request was executed the respective status will be set. If the 
request was not executed "requested level not available" will be set in Suspension control refusal information (ASC1 byte 
8.1).
0000: No memory level
0001: Memory level 1 selected
0010: Memory level 2 selected 
0011: Memory level 3 selected 
0100: Memory level 4 selected 
0101: Memory level 5 selected 
0110: reserved 
0111: reserved 
1000: reserved 
1001: Memory level 1 stored 
1010: Memory level 2 stored 
1011: Memory level 3 stored 
1100: Memory level 4 stored 
1101: Memory level 5 stored 
1110: Error indicator 
1111: not available 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65114 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 863 -
SPN 5433 Memory level request 
Signal which indicates that the air suspension control requests a memory level or a memory level shall be stored. 
The storage of the current memory level is requested by "Store memory level x". The acknowledge is set in "memory 
level x stored" (ASC1 byte 8.5). A memory level demand is requested by "Memory level x request". The acknowledge is 
set in "memory level x selected" (ASC1 byte 8.5) 
0000: No memory level request 
0001: Memory level 1 request 
0010: Memory level 2 request 
0011: Memory level 3 request 
0100: Memory level 4 request 
0101: Memory level 5 request 
0110: reserved 
0111: reserved 
1000: reserved 
1001: Store Memory level 1 
1010: Store Memory level 2 
1011: Store Memory level 3 
1100: Store Memory level 4 
1101: Store Memory level 5 
1110: Reserved 
1111: Don't care 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 53760 
(R) SPN 5434 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 1 Fill Valve Command 
Commanded percentage of maximum Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank Fill Valve opening. 100% means the fill 
valve is fully open providing maximum flow of diesel exhaust fluid into the diesel exhaust fluid tank. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64828 
(R) SPN 5435 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Pump State 
State of Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid dosing pump. 
00 pump operational 
01 pump error 
10 reserved for SAE assignment 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64828 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 864 -
(R) SPN 5436 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 1 Drain Valve Command 
Commanded percentage of maximum Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank Drain Valve opening. 100% means the 
drain valve is fully open providing maximum flow of diesel exhaust fluid out of the diesel exhaust fluid tank. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64828 
(R) SPN 5437 Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 1 Fill Valve Command 
Commanded percentage of maximum Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank Fill Valve opening. 100% means the fill 
valve is fully open providing maximum flow of diesel exhaust fluid into the diesel exhaust fluid tank. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64819 
(R) SPN 5438 Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Pump State 
State of Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid dosing pump. 
00 pump operational 
01 pump error 
10 reserved for SAE assignment 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64819 
(R) SPN 5439 Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 1 Drain Valve Command 
Commanded percentage of maximum Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank Drain Valve opening. 100% means the 
the drain valve is fully open providing maximum flow of diesel exhaust fluid out of the diesel exhaust fluid tank. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64819 
SPN 5444 Engine Crankcase Breather Oil Separator Speed 
The speed of a rotating (centrifugal) crankcase oil separator. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1 rpm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 64255 rpm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64916 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 865 -
SPN 5445 Engine Throttle Valve 1 Operation Status 
Used to identify the status of Engine Throttle Valve 1 
0000 – Normal 
0001 – Alarm (fully operational but needs service) 
0010 – Alarm High Severity (functional but transient performance may be reduced) 
0011 – Derate Active (torque output reduced due to environmental conditions) 
0100 – Controlled Shutdown Active (driving to the default position – usually this means closed) 
0101 – Uncontrolled Shutdown Active (actuator current is off so it is limp) 
0110 – 1101 Reserved for future assignment 
1110 – Error 
1111 – Not available 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64754 
SPN 5446 Engine Throttle Valve 2 Operation Status 
Used to identify the status of Engine Throttle Valve 2 
0000 – Normal 
0001 – Alarm (fully operational but needs service) 
0010 – Alarm High Severity (functional but transient performance may be reduced) 
0011 – Derate Active (torque output reduced due to environmental conditions) 
0100 – Controlled Shutdown Active (driving to the default position – usually this means closed) 
0101 – Uncontrolled Shutdown Active (actuator current is off so it is limp) 
0110 – 1101 Reserved for future assignment 
1110 – Error 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64754 
SPN 5447 Engine Fuel Valve 1 Operation Status 
Used to identify the status of Engine Fuel Valve 1 
0000 – Normal 
0001 – Alarm (fully operational but needs service) 
0010 – Alarm High Severity (functional but transient performance may be reduced) 
0011 – Derate Active (torque output reduced due to environmental conditions) 
0100 – Controlled Shutdown Active (driving to the default position – usually this means closed) 
0101 – Uncontrolled Shutdown Active (actuator current is off so it is limp) 
0110 – 1101 Reserved for future assignment 
1110 – Error 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64754 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 866 -
SPN 5448 Engine Fuel Valve 2 Operation Status 
Used to identify the status of Engine Fuel Valve 2 
0000 – Normal 
0001 – Alarm (fully operational but needs service) 
0010 – Alarm High Severity (functional but transient performance may be reduced) 
0011 – Derate Active (torque output reduced due to environmental conditions) 
0100 – Controlled Shutdown Active (driving to the default position – usually this means closed) 
0101 – Uncontrolled Shutdown Active (actuator current is off so it is limp) 
0110 – 1101 Reserved for future assignment 
1110 – Error 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64754 
SPN 5449 Engine Turbocharger Compressor Bypass Actuator 1 Operation Status 
Used to identify the status of Engine Turbocharger Compressor Bypass Actuator 1 
0000 – Normal 
0001 – Alarm (fully operational but needs service) 
0010 – Alarm High Severity (functional but transient performance may be reduced) 
0011 – Derate Active (torque output reduced due to environmental conditions) 
0100 – Controlled Shutdown Active (driving to the default position – usually this means closed) 
0101 – Uncontrolled Shutdown Active (actuator current is off so it is limp) 
0110 – 1101 Reserved for future assignment 
1110 – Error 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64755 
SPN 5450 Engine Turbocharger Compressor Bypass Actuator 2 Operation Status 
Used to identify the status of Engine Turbocharger Compressor Bypass Actuator 2 
0000 – Normal 
0001 – Alarm (fully operational but needs service) 
0010 – Alarm High Severity (functional but transient performance may be reduced) 
0011 – Derate Active (torque output reduced due to environmental conditions) 
0100 – Controlled Shutdown Active (driving to the default position – usually this means closed) 
0101 – Uncontrolled Shutdown Active (actuator current is off so it is limp) 
0110 – 1101 Reserved for future assignment 
1110 – Error 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64755 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 867 -
SPN 5451 Engine Turbocharger Wastegate Actuator 1 Operation Status 
Used to identify the status of Engine Turbocharger Wastegate Actuator 1 
0000 – Normal 
0001 – Alarm (fully operational but needs service) 
0010 – Alarm High Severity (functional but transient performance may be reduced) 
0011 – Derate Active (torque output reduced due to environmental conditions) 
0100 – Controlled Shutdown Active (driving to the default position – usually this means closed) 
0101 – Uncontrolled Shutdown Active (actuator current is off so it is limp) 
0110 – 1101 Reserved for future assignment 
1110 – Error 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64753 
SPN 5452 Engine Turbocharger Wastegate Actuator 2 Operation Status 
Used to identify the status of Engine Turbocharger Wastegate Actuator 2 
0000 – Normal 
0001 – Alarm (fully operational but needs service) 
0010 – Alarm High Severity (functional but transient performance may be reduced) 
0011 – Derate Active (torque output reduced due to environmental conditions) 
0100 – Controlled Shutdown Active (driving to the default position – usually this means closed) 
0101 – Uncontrolled Shutdown Active (actuator current is off so it is limp) 
0110 – 1101 Reserved for future assignment 
1110 – Error 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64753 
SPN 5454 Aftertreatment 1 Average Time Between Active Regenerations 
Indicates the average time since last reset between active regenerations, that have not been forced to occur by manual 
request, for Aftertreatment device 1. 
If the manufacturer allows this parameter to be reset, this time is the average since last reset. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 1 s/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 4,211,081,215 s Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64920 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 868 -
SPN 5455 Aftertreatment 2 Average Time Between Active Regenerations 
Indicates the average time since last reset between active regenerations, that have not been forced to occur by manual 
request, for Aftertreatment device 2. 
Data Length: 4 bytes 
Resolution: 1 s/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 4,211,081,215 s Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64921 
SPN 5456 Aftertreatment 1 Hydrocarbon Doser Intake Fuel Temperature 
Measured temperature of the intake fuel to the hydrocarbon dosing device 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 deg C/bit, -40 deg C offset 
Data Range: -40 to 210 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64869 
SPN 5457 Engine Variable Geometry Turbocharger 1 Control Mode 
Indicates if the variable geometry turbocharger control status is either open loop or closed loop. 
00 open loop 
01 closed loop 
10 SAE reserved 
11 not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64981 
SPN 5458 Flexible Fuel Percentage 
Measured signal that indicates the percentage of alcohol in the fuel currently being used. 0% means no alcohol in fuel, 
100% means alcohol as fuel and nothing else. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.0025 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 160.6375 % Operational Range: 0 to 100% 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65203 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 869 -
SPN 5459 Aftertreatment 1 NOx Adsorber deNOx Regeneration Status 
Indicates whether the NOx adsorber deNOx regeneration in the first aftertreatment system is active or inactive 
00 Inactive 
01 Active 
10 Error indicator 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64748 
SPN 5460 Aftertreatment 2 NOx Adsorber deNOx Regeneration Status 
Indicates whether the NOx adsorber deNOx regeneration in the second aftertreatment system is active or inactive 
00 Inactive 
01 Active 
10 Error indicator 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64747 
SPN 5461 Aftertreatment 1 NOx Adsorber deSOx Regeneration Status 
Indicates whether the NOx adsorber deSOx regeneration in the first aftertreatment system is active or inactive 
00 Inactive 
01 Active 
10 Error indicator 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64748 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 870 -
SPN 5462 Aftertreatment 2 NOx Adsorber deSOx Regeneration Status 
Indicates whether the NOx adsorber deSOx regeneration in the second aftertreatment system is active or inactive 
00 Inactive 
01 Active 
10 Error indicator 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64747 
SPN 5463 Aftertreatment 1 SCR Operator Inducement Active Traveled Distance 
The distance traveled while SCR inducement (SPN 5246 is equal to level 1 to 5) is active. Distance is reset once 
inducement is no longer active (SPN 5246 = 0). 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1 km/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 64,255 km Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64878 
SPN 5464 Hybrid Battery Pack Remaining Charge 
Indicates the hybrid battery pack remaining charge. 0% means no charge remaining, 100% means full charge remaining. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.0025 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 160.6375 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64746 
SPN 5465 Engine Intake Manifold Pressure Control Mode 
Indicates that the Boost Pressure Closed Loop Control status either open loop or closed loop. 
00 Open loop
01 Closed loop
10 SAE reserved 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65214 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 871 -
SPN 5466 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Particulate Filter Soot Load Regeneration Threshold 
This parameter indicates the value that will first cause DPF regeneration in aftertreatment 1. There may be multiple 
parameters that cause DPF regeneration (e.g. Percent Soot Load, DPF delta pressure converted to normalized 
percentage, etc..). 
100% is the level at which active diesel particulate filter regeneration should be triggered. 100% level is the active 
regeneration trigger level (and if conditions are not favorable for regeneration, soot loading can continue beyond 100%). 
During normal operation and regeneration a value 0% will indicate a fully regenerated diesel particulate filter. Values of 
25%, 50% and 75% will indicate the general level of soot prior to the 100% level where an active regeneration is needed. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.0025 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 160.6375 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64891 
SPN 5467 Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Particulate Filter Soot Load Regeneration Threshold 
This parameter indicates the value that will first cause DPF regeneration in aftertreatment 2. There may be multiple 
parameters that cause DPF regeneration (e.g. Percent Soot Load, DPF delta pressure converted to normalized 
percentage, etc..). 
100% is the level at which active diesel particulate filter regeneration should be triggered. 100% level is the active 
regeneration trigger level (and if conditions are not favorable for regeneration, soot loading can continue beyond 100%). 
During normal operation and regeneration a value 0% will indicate a fully regenerated diesel particulate filter. Values of 
25%, 50% and 75% will indicate the general level of soot prior to the 100% level where an active regeneration is needed. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.0025 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 160.6375 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64890 
SPN 5468 Engine Oil Relative Dielectricity (high resolution) 
Engine oil relative dielectricity used to describe the engine oil quality. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1/8192 per bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 7.844 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64776 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 872 -
SPN 5469 Engine Fuel Filter Restricted Lamp Command 
Command signal directly controlling the Engine Fuel Filter Restricted Lamp. 
00 - Lamp Off 
01 - Lamp On 
10 - Flash (1 hz) 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64775 
SPN 5470 Engine Fuel Filter Restricted Lamp Data 
This parameter provides measured data from the Engine Fuel Filter Restricted Lamp. 
00 - Lamp deactivated (Off) 
01 - Lamp activated (On) 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64773 
SPN 5471 Engine Friction Percent Torque At Idle, Point 1 
The static portion of the friction torque at speed point 1 (SPN 188) of the engine torque map in the engine configuration 
message. This parameter does not include Estimated Pumping – Percent Torque (SPN 5398) and is expected to change 
with temperature. The data is transmitted as a percent of the reference engine torque (SPN 544). 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, -125 % offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 % Operational Range: 0 to 125% 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64743 
SPN 5472 Engine Friction Percent Torque At Idle, Point 2 
The static portion of the friction torque at speed point 2 (SPN 528) of the engine torque map in the engine configuration 
message. This parameter does not include Estimated Pumping – Percent Torque (SPN 5398) and is expected to change 
with temperature. The data is transmitted as a percent of the reference engine torque (SPN 544). 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, -125 % offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 % Operational Range: 0 to 125% 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64743 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 873 -
SPN 5473 Engine Friction Percent Torque At Idle, Point 3 
The static portion of the friction torque at speed point 3 (SPN 529) of the engine torque map in the engine configuration 
message. This parameter does not include Estimated Pumping – Percent Torque (SPN 5398) and is expected to change 
with temperature. The data is transmitted as a percent of the reference engine torque (SPN 544). 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, -125 % offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 % Operational Range: 0 to 125% 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64743 
SPN 5474 Engine Friction Percent Torque At Idle, Point 4 
The static portion of the friction torque at speed point 4 (SPN 530) of the engine torque map in the engine configuration 
message. This parameter does not include Estimated Pumping – Percent Torque (SPN 5398) and is expected to change 
with temperature. The data is transmitted as a percent of the reference engine torque (SPN 544). 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, -125 % offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 % Operational Range: 0 to 125% 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64743 
SPN 5475 Engine Friction Percent Torque At Idle, Point 5 
The static portion of the friction torque at speed point 5 (SPN 531) of the engine torque map in the engine configuration 
message. This parameter does not include Estimated Pumping – Percent Torque (SPN 5398) and is expected to change 
with temperature. The data is transmitted as a percent of the reference engine torque (SPN 544). 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, -125 % offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 % Operational Range: 0 to 125% 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64743 
SPN 5476 Engine Friction Percent Torque At Idle, Point 6 
For engine configuration map modes 1 and 2, this is the static portion of the friction torque at speed point 6 (SPN 532) of 
the engine torque map. For engine configuration map mode 3, this parameter is the static portion of the friction torque at 
the engine speed calculated by using Engine Gain (Kp) Of The Endspeed Governor (SPN 545) where torque is 0. This 
parameter does not include Estimated Pumping – Percent Torque (SPN 5398) and is expected to change with 
temperature. The data is transmitted as a percent of the reference engine torque (SPN 544).. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, -125 % offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 % Operational Range: 0 to 125% 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64743 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 874 -
SPN 5477 Engine Friction Percent Torque At Idle, Point 7 
The static portion of the friction torque at speed point 7 (SPN 533) of the engine torque map in the engine configuration 
message. This parameter does not include Estimated Pumping – Percent Torque (SPN 5398) and is expected to change 
with temperature. The data is transmitted as a percent of the reference engine torque (SPN 544). 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, -125 % offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 % Operational Range: 0 to 125% 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64743 
(R) SPN 5492 Armrest 1 Switch 2 
Status of the second switch located in armrest 1. 
00: Off 
01: On 
10: Reserved 
11: Don't care/take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64745 
(R) SPN 5493 Armrest 2 Switch 1 
Status of the first switch located in armrest 2. 
00: Off 
01: On 
10: Reserved 
11: Don't care/take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64745 
(R) SPN 5494 Armrest 2 Switch 2 
Status of the second switch located in armrest 2. 
00: Off 
01: On 
10: Reserved 
11: Don't care/take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64745 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 875 -
SPN 5495 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Particulate Filter Soot Mean Calibration Offset 
Calibration offset for the soot Mean for Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Particulate Filter soot sensor. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.0025 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 160.6375 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 37888 
SPN 5496 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Particulate Filter Soot Standard Deviation Calibration Offset 
Calibration offset for the soot standard deviation for Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Particulate Filter soot sensor. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.0025 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 160.6375 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 37888 
SPN 5497 Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Particulate Filter Soot Mean Calibration Offset 
Calibration offset for the soot Mean for Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Particulate Filter soot sensor. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.0025 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 160.6375 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 38144 
SPN 5498 Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Particulate Filter Soot Standard Deviation Calibration Offset 
Calibration offset for the soot standard deviation for Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Particulate Filter soot sensor. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.0025 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 160.6375 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 38144 
(R) SPN 5499 Intake Valve Actuation System Oil Pressure 1 Solenoid Control 
Indicates the current command to the solenoid that controls the intake valve actuation system oil pressure 1 valve. This 
valve opens or closes a connection from the intake valve actuation oil rail to tank. 
00 off 
01 on 
10 reserved 
11 don't care/take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64744 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 876 -
(R) SPN 5500 Intake Valve Actuation System Oil Pressure 2 Solenoid Control 
Indicates the current command to the solenoid that controls the intake valve actuation system oil pressure 2 valve. This 
valve opens or closes a connection from the intake valve actuation oil rail to tank. 
00 off 
01 on 
10 reserved 
11 don't care/take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64744 
(R) SPN 5501 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Particulate Filter Intake Temperature Set Point 
Set point temperature for the particulate filter (DPF) regeneration at the intake to the DPF for Exhaust bank 1. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64736 
(R) SPN 5502 Relative Unburned Fuel Mass from Engine 
The unburned amount of diesel fuel coming out of the engine. This fuel increases the temperature while oxidated in the 
Diesel Oxidation Catalyst (DOC). Therefore, this amount of fuel also needs to be taken into account of the Hydrocarbon 
Doser temperature controller. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.0025 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 160.6375 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64736 
(R) SPN 5503 Aftertreatment 1 Fuel Mass Rate 
Mass rate of total fuel being delivered to aftertreatment 1 for DPF regeneration. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.05 g/m per bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3212.75 g/m Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64736 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 877 -
(R) SPN 5504 Hydrocarbon Doser Purging Enable 
Purging enable of the Hydrocarbon Doser (HCD). 
00 Purging not enabled 
01 Purging enabled - less urgent 
10 Purging enabled - urgent 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64892 
(R) SPN 5505 Requested Hydrocarbon Doser Fuel Mass Rate 
Requested fuel dosing quantity from hydrocarbon doser. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.05 g/m per bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3212.75 g/m Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 37376 
(R) SPN 5506 Hydrocarbon Doser Status 
Indicates whether the Hydrocarbon Doser/ Hydrocarbon Dosing system is enabled or is waiting for regeneration. 
000 Hydrocarbon doser disabled 
001 Hydrocarbon doser active 
010 SAE reserved 
011 Hydrocarbon doser enabled, waiting for regeneration 
100 SAE reserved 
101 SAE reserved 
110 Error 
111 Not available 
Data Length: 3 bits 
Resolution: 8 states/3 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 7 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 37376 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 878 -
(R) SPN 5507 Hydrocarbon Doser (HCD) Injecting Status 
Indicates whether the Hydrocarbon Doser (HCD) is presently injecting diesel fuel into the exhaust pipe. 
00 Injecting not active 
01 Injecting active 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 37376 
(R) SPN 5508 Diagnostic Status of Hydrocarbon Doser 
Indicates whether an error is active in the Hydrocarbon Doser (HCD) or whether the internal cyclic system test of the HCD 
is presently active.
This is not intended to replace the DM8/DM30 - Test results requirement for OBD. 
000 System test has not yet executed (Formerly "System test has executed and passed or System test has not yet 
executed")
001 System test is in process 
010 System test has executed and passed 
011 - 101 SAE reserved 
110 Error -- System test has failed 
111 Not available 
Note: In some published versions of CS1939, the state 000 indicates that it could be used to indicate that system test 
was never executed or has executed and passed. In later versions, the separation between states 000 and 010 was 
made based on ballot comments. 
Data Length: 3 bits 
Resolution: 8 states/3 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 7 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 37376 
(R) SPN 5509 Hydrocarbon Doser Purging Needed 
Purging of the Hydrocarbon Doser is needed. Request could come from the Hydrocarbon Doser system. 
00 Purging not required 
01 Purging required - less urgent 
10 Purging required - urgent 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 37376 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 879 -
(R) SPN 5510 Lubrication Cycle Mode Lock Command 
Command signal to lock or unlock the ability to change the lubrication cycle mode. Locking the lubrication mode would 
prevent the changing of the lubrication cycle mode, perhaps by an operator. 
00 - Not Locked 
01 - Locked 
10 - Reserved 
11 - No action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 37120 
(R) SPN 5511 Lubrication Cycle Set Command 
Command signal to change the lubrication cycle. It gives the operator or technician the ability to the change the frequency 
of lubrication. 
000 - Cycle mode # 1 (Lowest Lubrication Frequency) 
001 - Cycle mode # 2 
010 - Cycle mode # 3 (Highest Lubrication Frequency) 
011 to 110 - Reserved
111 - No action 
Data Length: 3 bits 
Resolution: 8 states/3 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 7 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 37120 
(R) SPN 5512 Lubrication Operation Mode Set Command 
Command signal to change lubrication system operational mode. The mode set command gives the operator and/or 
technician the ability to change the operational mode when diagnosing and servicing of the system is required. 
Automatic is the normal operation mode of lubrication system. In this mode the operator has the privilege to change duty 
cycle mode, if the lubrication mode in not locked. 
In manual service mode the service tool temporary takes control of the pump controller for service purposes. 
The Test mode # x shall command the system to perform pre-defined greasing cycles in order to verify operation of the 
lubrication system. 
000 - Automatic Mode 
001 - Manual Service Mode 
010 - Test Mode # 1 
011 - Test Mode # 2 
100 - Test Mode # 3 
101-110 - Reserved 
111 - Take no action 
Data Length: 3 bits 
Resolution: 8 states/3 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 7 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 37120 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 880 -
(R) SPN 5513 Lubrication Pump Enable Command 
Command signal to reset the lubrication pump. It allows the operator and/or technician to reset the paused lubrication 
pump and clear lubrication system faults. This shall enable the lubrication system to resume its normal operation.
00 - No action (Normal pump operation) 
01 - Reset pump operation
10 - Reserved 
11 - Take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 37120 
(R) SPN 5514 Lubrication Timing Cycle Command 
Command signal to enable or pause the lubrication activation clock
00 - Pause 
01 - Enable 
10 - Reserved
11 - Take no action
Note: In some vehicles or machines the lubrication is only required when the vehicle or machine is in certain state (such 
as when a certain gear is engaged, operator's armrest in place etc.). To prevent unwanted grease lubrication, a timing 
cycle clock is used. This clock is only ticked for the time the vehicle or machine is in the defined state. Starting or stopping
of the clock is controlled using an external input. 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 37120 
(R) SPN 5515 Lubrication Cycle Mode Lock Status 
Reports status of the ability to change the lubrication cycle mode. Locking the lubrication mode would prevent the 
changing of the lubrication cycle mode, perhaps by an operator 
00 - Not Locked 
01 - Locked 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64742 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 881 -
(R) SPN 5516 Lubrication Cycle Mode Status 
Reports the current lubrication cycle mode of the lubrication system 
000 - Cycle mode # 1 (Lowest Lubrication Frequency) 
001 - Cycle mode # 2 
010 - Cycle mode # 3 (Highest Lubrication Frequency) 
011 to 101 - Reserved
110 - Error 
111 - Not available 
Data Length: 3 bits 
Resolution: 8 states/3 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 7 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64742 
(R) SPN 5517 Lubrication Operation Mode Status 
Reports the current operational mode status of the lubrication system. 
Automatic is the normal operation mode of lubrication system. In this mode the operator has the privilege to change duty 
cycle mode, if the lubrication mode in not locked 
In manual service mode the service tool temporary takes control of the pump controller for service purposes. 
The Test mode # x shall command the system to perform pre-defined greasing cycles in order to verify operation of the 
lubrication system. 
000 - Automatic Mode 
001 - Manual Service Mode 
010 - Test Mode # 1 
011 - Test Mode # 2 
100 - Test Mode # 3 
101 - Reserved 
110 - Error 
111 - Not Available 
Note: In general the lubrication system shall be operating in automatic mode but, it may also be changed into manual or 
test mode. These test and manual modes are used to perform service and diagnostic tests on the lubrication system. The 
proposed SPN shall be used to report the current operating status of grease lubrication system. 
Data Length: 3 bits 
Resolution: 8 states/3 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 7 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64742 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 882 -
(R) SPN 5518 Lubrication Pump Enable Status 
Reports the operational status of the lubrication system pump. In the disabled state, the lubrication pump will not run a 
lubrication cycle. In the enabled state, the lubrication system will perform normal operations. 
00 - Disabled 
01 - Enabled 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64742 
(R) SPN 5519 Lubrication Reservoir Level 
Reports the status of the lubrication system reservior level. The lubrication reservoir stores the grease for the lubrication 
system. The lubrication pump draws grease from this reservoir and pushes it into the vehicle/chassis joints 
00 - Reservoir Not Low 
01 - Reservoir Low 
10 - Error
11 - Not available or not installed 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64742 
(R) SPN 5520 Lubrication Timing Cycle Status 
Reports the status of the lubrication activation clock. 
00 - Paused
01 - Enabled 
10 - Error
11 - Not available or not installed 
Note: In some vehicles or machines, lubrication is only required when the vehicle or machine is in certain state e. g. 
when a certain gear is engaged. To prevent unwanted grease lubrication, a timing cycle clock is used. This clock only 
ticks for the time the vehicle or machine is in that defined state. Starting or stopping of the clock is controlled using an 
external input. The status of this timing cycle clock shall be reported to the operator by using the proposed SPN. 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64742 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 883 -
(R) SPN 5532 Switch Backlight Illumination Brightness Percent 
Commanded switch backlight brightness level for all operator control switches. This is separate from the cab display 
illumination Brightness Percent parameter. 
Note: If a single device is used to control both the backlight brightness level of the cab display and switches, see SPN 
1487.
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 53248 
(R) SPN 5533 Hydraulic Oil Dynamic Viscosity 
Dynamic viscosity of hydraulic oil. This hydraulic fluid is for the entire hydraulics system of a piece of equipment. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.015625 Cp per bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 1003.984375 Cp Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64741 
(R) SPN 5534 Hydraulic Oil Density 
Density of hydraulic oil. This hydraulic fluid is for the entire hydraulics system of a piece of equipment. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.00003052 g/cc per bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 1.961 g/cc Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64741 
(R) SPN 5535 Hydraulic Oil Relative Dielectricity (high resolution) 
Hydraulic oil relative dielectricity used to describe the hydraulic oil quality. This hydraulic fluid is for the entire hydraulics
system of a piece of equipment. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1/8192 per bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 7.844 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64741 
(R) SPN 5536 Hydraulic Oil Temperature (High Resolution) 
Hydraulic Oil Temperature. This hydraulic fluid is for the entire hydraulics system of a piece of equipment. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64741 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 884 -
(R) SPN 5537 Engine Fuel Dynamic Viscosity 
Dynamic viscosity of engine fuel 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.015625 Cp per bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 1003.984375 Cp Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64740 
(R) SPN 5538 Engine Fuel Density 
Density of engine fuel 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.00003052 g/cc per bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 1.961 g/cc Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64740 
(R) SPN 5539 Engine Fuel Dielectricity (high resolution) 
Engine fuel relative dielectricity. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1/8192 per bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 7.844 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64740 
(R) SPN 5540 Engine Fuel Temperature (High Resolution) 
Engine Fuel Temperature. See also SPNs 174 or 3468 for alternate resolution. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64740 
(R) SPN 5541 Engine Turbocharger 1 Turbine Outlet Pressure 
Gage pressure of the combustion by-products exiting the turbine side of the turbocharger 1. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 2 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 500 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64739 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 885 -
(R) SPN 5542 Desired Engine Turbocharger 1 Turbine Outlet Pressure 
The desired gage pressure of the combustion by-products exiting the turbine side of the turbocharger 1 at the current 
engine operating conditions. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 2 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 500 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64739 
(R) SPN 5543 Engine Exhaust Brake Actuator Command 
The control command applied to the engine exhaust brake actuator, where 0% represents no braking and 100% 
represents full braking. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 64739 
PGN reference: 64739 
(R) SPN 5544 Engine Turbocharger 2 Turbine Outlet Pressure 
Gage pressure of the combustion by-products exiting the turbine side of the turbocharger 2. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 2 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 500 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 64739 
PGN reference: 64739 
(R) SPN 5545 Desired Engine Turbocharger 2 Turbine Outlet Pressure 
The desired gage pressure of the combustion by-products exiting the turbine side of the turbocharger 5 at the current 
engine operating conditions. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 2 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 500 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64739 
(R) SPN 5546 Engine Auxiliary Cooler Supply Valve 1 Actuator Command 
The control command applied to the engine auxiliary cooler supply valve 1 actuator, where 0% represents closed and 
100% represents open. 
See SPN 4197 for primary engine thermostat valve. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64850 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 886 -
(R) SPN 5547 Engine Auxiliary Cooler Supply Valve 2 Actuator Command 
The control command applied to the engine auxiliary cooler supply valve 2 actuator, where 0% represents closed and 
100% represents open. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64850 
(R) SPN 5548 Engine Cold Start Fuel Igniter Command 
The engine cold start fuel igniter control command, normalized to %, where 0% represents fully off and 100% represents 
fully on. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 64966 
PGN reference: 64966 
(R) SPN 5549 Engine Cold Start Fuel Igniter Relay Command 
The engine cold start fuel igniter relay control command. This command controls the relay, not the igniter. 
00 Off 
01 On 
10 Reserved 
11 Don't care/take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 64966 
PGN reference: 64966 
(R) SPN 5550 Engine Cold Start Fuel Igniter Relay Feedback 
Feedback state of the engine cold start fuel igniter relay which indicates the status of the relay output. 
00 Off 
01 On 
10 Error 
11 Not available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 64966 
PGN reference: 64966 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 887 -
(R) SPN 5551 Magnet Generator Control 
Command signal used to Enable and Disable the Generator controlling a Magnet. 
00 Off, Disable Generator 
01 On, Enable Generator 
10 Reserved 
11 Take No Action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 61484 
(R) SPN 5552 Supplemental Fan Enable Command 
Enable/Disable command to Supplemental Fan. 
00 Disable
01 Enable 
10 Reserved
11 Don't Care/Take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 36864 
(R) SPN 5553 Supplemental Fan Direction Command 
Direction command to the Supplemental Fan. Fan can be commanded to run forward or reverse. 
00 Forward 
01 Reverse 
10 Reserved 
11 Don't care/take no action (leave function as is) 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 36864 
(R) SPN 5554 Supplemental Fan Speed Command 
Speed command to Supplemental Fan. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.5 rpm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 32,127.5 rpm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 36864 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 888 -
(R) SPN 5555 Supplemental Fan Power Hold 
Command to allow the supplemental fan controller to remain alive independently of the electrical enable input to the fan. 
This allows the fan controller to remain alive after the keyswitch has disabled the electrical enable pin on the fan 
controller. For example, the fan can continue to run after a machine has been shutdown to provide cooling when the 
machine is no longer running 
00 Disable 
01 Enable 
10 Reserved 
11 Don't Care/Take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 36864 
(R) SPN 5556 Supplemental Fan Enable Status 
Enable/Disable Status of Supplemental Fan. 
00 Disabled 
01 Enabled 
10 Error 
11 Not available/Not installed 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64738 
(R) SPN 5557 Supplemental Fan Direction Status 
Rotational Direction of Supplemental Fan. Fan could be spinning forward or reverse. 
00 Forward 
01 Reverse 
10 Error 
11 Not available/Not installed 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64738 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 889 -
(R) SPN 5558 Supplemental Fan Velocity Status 
Status of the rotational velocity of Supplemental Fan. Used to indicate if the fan is spinning at the desired speed. If fan is 
not able to obtain the commanded speed, velocity error is indicated. If fan is unable to spin, the fan is in Fan Stall 
condition.
0000 At Velocity (Fan OK) 
0001 Velocity Error (unable to achieve commanded speed) 
0010 Fan Spin Up 
0011 Fan Spin Down 
0100 Fan Stall 
0101-1101 Reserved 
1110 Error 
1111 Not available 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64738 
(R) SPN 5559 Supplemental Fan Controller Temperature Status 
Internal Controller Temperature Status of Supplemental Fan. 
000 High most severe
001 High Least severe
010 In Range
011 Low Least severe
100 Low Most severe
101 Not Defined
110 Error
111 Not available 
Data Length: 3 bits 
Resolution: 8 states/3 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 7 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64738 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 890 -
(R) SPN 5560 Supplemental Fan Drive Status 
The drive status of the Supplemental Fan. This status parameter indicates the overall health of the fan drive. It will 
indicate that the fan is working OK or if there is an internal fault such as open winding or internal short circuit. 
0000 Normal = "OK" 
0001 Alarm = Fully operational but needs service 
0010 Alarm High Severity = Functional but transient performance may be reduced 
0011 Derate Active = Torque output reduced due to environmental conditions 
0100 Controlled Shutdown Active = Driving to the default position – usually this means closed 
0101 Uncontrolled Shutdown Active = Actuator current is off so it is limp 
0110 - 1101 Reserved for future assignment = Not used 
1110 Error 
1111 Not available 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64738 
(R) SPN 5561 Supplemental Fan Controller ECU Temperature 
Measured temperature of Supplemental Fan Controller ECU. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 deg C/bit, -40 deg C offset 
Data Range: -40 to 210 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64738 
(R) SPN 5562 Supplemental Fan Speed 
Measured speed of supplemental fan. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.5 rpm/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 32,127.5 rpm Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64738 
(R) SPN 5563 Supplemental Fan Current 
Measured electrical current of supplemental fan drive. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 A/bit, -125 A offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 A Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64738 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 891 -
(R) SPN 5564 Supplemental Fan Power 
Estimated Power output of Supplemental Fan 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.5 W/bit, 0 W offset 
Data Range: 0 to 32127.5 W Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64738 
(R) SPN 5565 Coolant Level Engine Protection Shutdown Override Command 
Overrides the engine protection shutdown functionality due to low coolant level.
00 - Disable engine protection shutdown override due to low coolant level 
01 - Enable engine protection shutdown override due to low coolant level 
10 - Reserved 
11 - Don't care/take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 36608 
(R) SPN 5566 Coolant Level Engine Protection Shutdown Status 
Parameter which indicates the configuration of the coolant level engine protection shutdown. 
00 - Disabled - calibration does not allow engine protection due to low coolant level or the override is currently active 
01 - Enabled - calibration allows engine protection due to low coolant level and the override is currently not active 
10 - Reserved 
11 - Not Available 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65252 
(R) SPN 5567 Engine Speed Governor Gain Adjust 
This parameter is used to adjust multiple gains at same time to attain engine stability across a broader range of 
applications.
-32128 is least responsive 
0 is normal 
+32127 is most responsive 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 1 count/bit, -32128 offset 
Data Range: -32128 to 32127 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64915 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 892 -
(R) SPN 5568 Engine Speed Governor Droop 
This is the percent speed droop adjustment relative to rated speed setpoint. The Engine Speed Droop is equal to the 
following equation:
100*[(Engine Speed at no load - Engine Speed at full rated load)/ (Engine Speed at full rated load)].
The engine speed will slow down as load is added. Allows for inexpensive load sharing between multiple engines. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.04%/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 10% Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64915 
(R) SPN 5569 Diesel Particulate Filter 1 Soot Sensor ECU Internal Temperature 
Internal temperature of the diesel particulate filter 1 soot sensor ECU. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 deg C/bit, -40 deg C offset 
Data Range: -40 to 210 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64796 
(R) SPN 5570 Diesel Particulate Filter 2 Soot Sensor ECU Internal Temperature 
Internal temperature of the diesel particulate filter 2 soot sensor ECU. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 deg C/bit, -40 deg C offset 
Data Range: -40 to 210 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64795 
(R) SPN 5578 Engine Fuel Delivery Absolute Pressure 
Absolute pressure of fuel in system as delivered from supply pump to the injection pump. See also SPN 94 for Fuel 
Delivery Pressure (Gage). 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 4 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 1000 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN16_A & SPN16_B 
PGN reference: 64735 
(R) SPN 5579 Engine Filtered Fuel Delivery Pressure 
Gage pressure of fuel in system as delivered from supply pump to the injection pump after the pressure side fuel filter.
See SPN 5580 for absolute pressure of fuel in system after the pressure side fuel filter. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 4 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 1000 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN16_A & SPN16_B 
PGN reference: 64735 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 893 -
(R) SPN 5580 Engine Filtered Fuel Delivery Absolute Pressure 
Absolute pressure of fuel in system as delivered from supply pump to the injection pump after the pressure side fuel filter. 
 See SPN 5579 for gage pressure of fuel in system after the pressure side fuel filter. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 4 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 1000 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN16_A & SPN16_B 
PGN reference: 64735 
(R) SPN 5581 Calculated Ambient Air Temperature 
Calculated temperature of air surrounding vehicle. Use SPN 171 for actual measured ambient air temperature. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.03125 deg C/bit, -273 deg C offset 
Data Range: -273 to 1734.96875 deg C Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64992 
(R) SPN 5582 Static Roll Angle 
The measured static roll angle between the vehicle y-axis and the ground plane about the X-axis. The sign of the roll 
angle is determined in accordance to the right-hand rule about the X-axis, as specified in SAE J670. Roll angle is the 
same for both Z-Down and Z-Up axis system, as specified in SAE J670, since both systems have positive X forward. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 deg/bit, -125 deg offset 
Data Range: -125 to 125 deg Operational Range: -90 to 90 deg 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 2304 
(R) SPN 5583 Static Roll Angle Status 
Status of the transmitted roll angle data. 
000 = Sensor Busy 
001 = Sensor OK 
010 = Sensor Defect 
011 = Sensor Reboots 
100 = Angle Data Invalid 
101 = Reserved 
110 = Error 
111 = Not available 
Data Length: 3 bits 
Resolution: 8 states/3 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 7 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 2304 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 894 -
(R) SPN 5584 Engine Fuel Filter Estimated Useful Life 
The estimated percentage relative to the useful life of the engine fuel filter.
This is not a calculation of the physical restriction of the filter. 0% is typical of a new filter. 100% is typical of an end of life 
filter, the filter should be replaced. The filter can operate past 100%. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 250 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - SPN 16 
PGN reference: 64735 
(R) SPN 5589 Aftertreatment 1 Secondary Air Absolute Pressure 
Absolute pressure of the secondary air for aftertreatment 1. Secondary air is air provided to the exhaust system (per SAE 
J2403).
For gage pressure, see SPN 3837. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6,425.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64734 
(R) SPN 5590 Aftertreatment 2 Secondary Air Absolute Pressure 
Absolute pressure of the secondary air for aftertreatment 2. Secondary air is air provided to the exhaust system (per SAE 
J2403).
For gage pressure, see SPN 3838. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6,425.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64733 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 895 -
(R) SPN 5603 Cruise Control Disable Command 
This parameter is used to disable cruise control from a source other than the driver controlled switch if cruise control is 
active. It is also used to inhibit cruise control from becoming active if it is not currently active. If this parameter is used to 
disable cruise control, then cruise control will need to be re-initialized and the previous set speed will not be retained.
This parameter has priority over Cruise Control Resume Command (SPN 5604). See Figure PGN2560_A for an 
explanation of how this relates to other parameters. 
Use of this parameter is in addition to Cruise Control Enable Switch (SPN 596). The Cruise Control Enable Switch set to 
OFF has priority over the Cruise Control Disable Command set to allowed. 
This parameter is not the physical switch that enables cruise control. See SPN 596 for the physical switch. 
00 - Cruise Control is allowed 
01 - Cruise Control is not allowed 
10 - Reserved 
11 - Don't care/take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN2560_A 
PGN reference: 2560 
(R) SPN 5604 Cruise Control Resume Command 
This parameter is used to request the cruise control to resume operation from a source other than the driver controlled 
switch. Implementers may wish to restrict the conditions in which cruise control will be resumed due to this parameter.
Possible restrictions include only honoring this request if it is received within a certain time period after cruise control has
been disabled, a vehicle speed differential has been exceeded since cruise control has been cancelled, etc.
This request will only be honored if it is received from the same device as the one that sent the Cruise Control Pause 
Command (SPN 5605). 
Cruise Control Disable Command (SPN 5603) and Cruise Control Pause Command (SPN 5605) both have a higher 
priority than this parameter. See Figure PGN2560_A for an explanation of how this relates to other parameters.
This parameter is not the physical switch that is used to resume cruise control. See SPN 601 for the physical switch. 
00 - Cruise Control Resume not Requested 
01 - Cruise Control Resume Requested 
10 - Reserved 
11 - Don't Care/take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN2560_A 
PGN reference: 2560 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 896 -
(R) SPN 5605 Cruise Control Pause Command 
This parameter is used to temporarily disable cruise control from a source other than the driver controlled switch if cruise 
control is active. If this parameter is used to disable cruise control, then cruise control will not need to be re-initialized and 
the previous set speed will be retained. In order for the cruise control system to resume to the previous set speed, a valid 
command must be received. Valid commands include (1) the Cruise Control Resume Switch (SPN 601), (2) the Cruise 
Control Set Switch (SPN 599), or (3) Cruise Control Resume Command (SPN 5604). 
This parameter has priority over Cruise Control Resume Command (SPN 5604). See Figure PGN2560_A for an 
explanation of how this relates to other parameters.
This parameter is not the physical switch that is used to pause cruise control. See SPN 1633 for the physical switch. 
Receiving this parameter to disable cruise control has the same effect on cruise control as tapping the brake pedal. 
00 - Cruise Control is allowed 
01 - Cruise Control is not allowed 
10 - Reserved 
11 - Don't care/take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN2560_A 
PGN reference: 2560 
(R) SPN 5606 Adaptive Cruise Control Readiness Status 
This parameter is used to indicate an application's state of readiness for responding to commands from an adaptive 
cruise control system controller. 
00 - Off -- Cruise Control System is not configured to accept commands from an adaptive cruise controller 
01 - On -- Cruise Control System is configured to accept commands from an adaptive cruise controller. 
10 - Error Condition -- Prevents system from responding to adaptive cruise controller commands even though it is 
configured.
11 - Not Available/Not Supported 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64732 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 897 -
(R) SPN 5607 Cruise Control System Command State 
Indicates the current state of the cruise control system due to the Cruise Control System Commands, which include 
Cruise Control Disable Command (SPN 5603), Cruise Control Resume Command (SPN 5604), and Cruise Control Pause 
Command (SPN 5605). 
000 - No Cruise Control System Command 
001 - Cruise control has been disabled by Cruise Control Disable Command (SPN 5603) 
010 - Cruise control has been disabled by Cruise Control Pause Command (SPN 5605) 
011 - Cruise control has been re-activated by Cruise Control Resume Command (SPN 5604) and Cruise Control States 
(SPN 527) is equal to Resume (100). Cruise Control System Command State will be equal to 011 as long as Cruise 
Control States is equal to Resume. Cruise Control System Command State will change to the appropriate value when 
Cruise Control States is no longer equal to Resume. 
100 - Cruise control device has received a Cruise Control Resume Command (SPN 5604), but there is no previous set 
speed.
101 - 110 -- SAE Reserved 
111 - Not Supported 
Data Length: 3 bits 
Resolution: 8 states/3 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 7 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN2560_A 
PGN reference: 64732 
(R) SPN 5608 Source Address of Device Disabling Cruise Control 
The source address of the SAE J1939 device that is currently sending the Cruise Control Disable Command (SPN 5603). 
If there are multiple devices sending Cruise Control Disable Command with a value of 01, then the value transmitted for 
this parameter will be the source address of the device that first began sending 01 for the command. If the device that 
first sent 01 for Cruise Control Disable Command is no longer sending 01 for the command, then the value of the Source 
Address of Controlling Device for Disabling Cruise Control shall be set to the source address of a device that is still 
sending the Cruise Control Disable Command with a value of 01. 
See Figure PGN2560_A for an explanation of how this relates to other parameters. 
This parameter is supported by the device that has the capability to receive and process the Cruise Control Disable 
Command (SPN 5603). 
254 (0xFE) is used to indicate that the Source Address of Controlling Device for Disabling Cruise Control parameter is 
supported, but no device is currently inhibiting cruise control with the Cruise Control Disable Command (SPN 5603). 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 source address/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 255 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN2560_A 
PGN reference: 64732 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 898 -
(R) SPN 5609 Source Address of Device Pausing Cruise Control 
The source address of the SAE J1939 device that is currently sending the Cruise Control Pause Command (SPN 5605). 
If there are multiple devices sending Cruise Control Pause Command with a value of 01, then the value transmitted for 
this parameter will be the source address of the device that first began sending 01 for the command. If the device that 
first sent 01 for Cruise Control Pause Command is no longer sending 01 for the command, then the value of the Source 
Address of Controlling Device for Pausing Cruise Control shall be set to the source address of a device that is still 
sending the Cruise Control Disable Command with a value of 01. 
This parameter is supported by the device that has the capability to receive and process the Cruise Control Pause 
Command (SPN 5605). 
254 (0xFE) is used to indicate that the Source Address of Controlling Device for Pausing Cruise Control parameter is 
supported, but no device is currently inhibiting cruise control with the Cruise Control Pause Command (SPN 5605). 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 1 source address/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 255 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN2560_A 
PGN reference: 64732 
(R) SPN 5624 Trailer - Vehicle Dynamic Control Active 
The trailer-VDC (Vehicle Dynamic Control) is an electronic vehicle stability function within the (semi) trailer braking 
system. It acts to stabilize the (semi) trailer during dynamic maneuvers. VDC includes Roll Over Prevention (ROP) and/or 
Yaw Control (YC), However, the latter information is not individually available and the VDC active parameter will be set in 
both cases. 
This parameter maps the 6.4.2.2.36 VDC active parameter of the ISO 11992_2 bus (trailer-bus) to the SAE J1939 
(vehicle bus). This makes it possible to warn the driver if one of the trailers activate the brakes because of an VDC 
function active in the trailer. 
00 - VDC passive, but installed 
01 - VDC active 
10 - Error 
11 - Not available or not installed 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 65103 
(R) SPN 5625 Engine Exhaust Back Pressure Regulator Position 
The position of the Exhaust Back Pressure Regulator (EBPR) expressed as a percentage of full travel. One hundred 
percent means the regulator is fully closed, providing the maximum restriction to exhaust gas flow from the engine. Zero 
percent means the regulator is fully open, providing the minimum available restriction. 
Data Length: 1 byte 
Resolution: 0.4 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 100 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64753 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 899 -
(R) SPN 5626 Engine Exhaust Back Pressure Regulator Preliminary FMI 
Used to identify the applicable J1939-73 FMI detected in the Engine Exhaust Back Pressure Regulator (EBPR) by the 
manufacturers software. When there is no failure, FMI 31 is transmitted. When there are multiple failures, the most severe 
is transmitted. 
Data Length: 5 bits 
Resolution: Binary, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 31 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64753 
(R) SPN 5627 Engine Exhaust Back Pressure Regulator Temperature Status 
Used to identify the status of the Engine Exhaust Back Pressure Regulator (EBPR) drive circuitry temperature. 
Temperature excursions may affect the torque output. 
000 – High most severe 
001 – High Least severe 
010 – In Range 
011 – Low Least severe 
100 – Low Most severe 
101 – Not Defined 
110 – Error 
111 – Not available 
Data Length: 3 bits 
Resolution: 8 states/3 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 7 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64753 
(R) SPN 5628 Engine Exhaust Back Pressure Regulator Control Operation Status 
Used to identify the status of Engine Exhaust Back Pressure Regulator. 
0000 – Normal 
0001 – Alarm (fully operational but needs service) 
0010 – Alarm High Severity (functional but transient performance may be reduced) 
0011 – Derate Active (torque output reduced due to environmental conditions) 
0100 – Controlled Shutdown Active (driving to the default position – usually this means closed) 
0101 – Uncontrolled Shutdown Active (actuator current is off so it is limp) 
0110 – 1101 Reserved for future assignment 
1110 – Error 
1111 – Not available 
Data Length: 4 bits 
Resolution: 16 states/4 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 15 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64753 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 900 -
(R) SPN 5629 Diesel Particulate Filter Active Regeneration Inhibited Due to Low Exhaust Gas Pressure 
Indicates the state of diesel particulate filter active regeneration inhibition due to low exhaust gas pressure. 
00 not inhibited 
01 inhibited 
10 reserved for SAE assignment 
11 not available 
This SPN indicates the reason for the diesel particulate filter regeneration not being initiated or being exited prior to 
completion. When this state becomes active the system will not initiate an active regeneration or will exit an active 
regeneration. The state provides information that may be provided to the driver/service technician as to why the 
regeneration did not initiate or was exited. 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64892 
(R) SPN 5630 Park Brake Command 
Request by a secondary device to command the Park Brake. The Park Brake controller should treat this as a request and 
should apply the Park Brake as determined by the controller.
Feedback of the park brake actuation may utilize SPN 70, SPN 619 or SPN 5275. 
00 - Park Brake apply not requested 
01 - Park Brake apply requested 
10 - SAE Reserved 
11 - Don't care/Take no action 
Data Length: 2 bits 
Resolution: 4 states/2 bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 3 Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 57344 
(R) SPN 5631 Engine Throttle Valve Differential Pressure 
The differential pressure between the intake and outlet of a throttle valve. The differential pressure is measured from the 
intake with respect to the outlet of the throttle valve. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 kPa/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6,425.5 kPa Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Measured 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64961 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 901 -
(R) SPN 5632 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Particulate Filter 1 Soot Sensor Analysis Request Frequency 1 
First requested analysis frequency for the diesel particulate filter 1 soot sensor. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 MHz/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 MHz Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64731 
(R) SPN 5633 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Particulate Filter 1 Soot Sensor Analysis Request Frequency 2 
Second requested analysis frequency for the diesel particulate filter 1 soot sensor. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 MHz/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 MHz Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64731 
(R) SPN 5634 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Particulate Filter 1 Soot Sensor Analysis Request Frequency 3 
Third requested analysis frequency for the diesel particulate filter 1 soot sensor. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 MHz/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 MHz Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64731 
(R) SPN 5635 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Particulate Filter 1 Soot Sensor Analysis Request Frequency 4 
Fourth requested analysis frequency for the diesel particulate filter 1 soot sensor. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 MHz/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 MHz Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64731 
(R) SPN 5636 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Particulate Filter 1 Soot Sensor Analysis Frequency 1 
The analysis frequency associated with the frequency 1 soot signal for the diesel particulate filter 1 soot sensor. See 
SPN 5632. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 MHz/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 MHz Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64730 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 902 -
(R) SPN 5637 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Particulate Filter 1 Soot Sensor Frequency 1 Soot Signal 
The soot signal attenuation measurement for analysis frequency 1 for the diesel particulate filter 1 soot sensor. See SPN 
5632.
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.0025 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 160.6375 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64730 
(R) SPN 5638 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Particulate Filter 1 Soot Sensor Analysis Frequency 2 
The analysis frequency associated with the frequency 2 soot signal for the diesel particulate filter 1 soot sensor. See 
SPN 5633. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 MHz/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 MHz Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64730 
(R) SPN 5639 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Particulate Filter 1 Soot Sensor Frequency 2 Soot Signal 
The soot signal attenuation measurement for analysis frequency 2 for the diesel particulate filter 1 soot sensor. See SPN 
5633.
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.0025 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 160.6375 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64730 
(R) SPN 5640 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Particulate Filter 1 Soot Sensor Analysis Frequency 3 
The analysis frequency associated with the frequency 3 soot signal for the diesel particulate filter 1 soot sensor. See 
SPN 5634. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 MHz/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 MHz Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64729 
(R) SPN 5641 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Particulate Filter 1 Soot Sensor Frequency 3 Soot Signal 
The soot signal attenuation measurement for analysis frequency 3 for the diesel particulate filter 1 soot sensor. See SPN 
5634.
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.0025 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 160.6375 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64729 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 903 -
(R) SPN 5642 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Particulate Filter 1 Soot Sensor Analysis Frequency 4 
The analysis frequency associated with the frequency 4 soot signal for the diesel particulate filter 1 soot sensor. See 
SPN 5635. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 MHz/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 MHz Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64729 
(R) SPN 5643 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Particulate Filter 1 Soot Sensor Frequency 4 Soot Signal 
The soot signal attenuation measurement for analysis frequency 4 for the diesel particulate filter 1 soot sensor. See SPN 
5635.
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.0025 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 160.6375 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64729 
(R) SPN 5644 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Particulate Filter 2 Soot Sensor Analysis Request Frequency 1 
First requested analysis frequency for the diesel particulate filter 2 soot sensor. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 MHz/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 MHz Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64728 
(R) SPN 5645 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Particulate Filter 2 Soot Sensor Analysis Request Frequency 2 
Second requested analysis frequency for the diesel particulate filter 2 soot sensor. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 MHz/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 MHz Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64728 
(R) SPN 5646 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Particulate Filter 2 Soot Sensor Analysis Request Frequency 3 
Third requested analysis frequency for the diesel particulate filter 2 soot sensor. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 MHz/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 MHz Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64728 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 904 -
(R) SPN 5647 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Particulate Filter 2 Soot Sensor Analysis Request Frequency 4 
Fourth requested analysis frequency for the diesel particulate filter 2 soot sensor. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 MHz/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 MHz Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64728 
(R) SPN 5648 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Particulate Filter 2 Soot Sensor Analysis Frequency 1 
The analysis frequency associated with the frequency 1 soot signal for the diesel particulate filter 2 soot sensor. See 
SPN 5644. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 MHz/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 MHz Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64727 
(R) SPN 5649 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Particulate Filter 2 Soot Sensor Frequency 1 Soot Signal 
The soot signal attenuation measurement for analysis frequency 1 for the diesel particulate filter 2 soot sensor. See SPN 
5644.
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.0025 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 160.6375 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64727 
(R) SPN 5650 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Particulate Filter 2 Soot Sensor Analysis Frequency 2 
The analysis frequency associated with the frequency 2 soot signal for the diesel particulate filter 2 soot sensor. See 
SPN 5645. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 MHz/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 MHz Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64727 
(R) SPN 5651 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Particulate Filter 2 Soot Sensor Frequency 2 Soot Signal 
The soot signal attenuation measurement for analysis frequency 2 for the diesel particulate filter 2 soot sensor. See SPN 
5645.
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.0025 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 160.6375 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64727 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 905 -
(R) SPN 5652 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Particulate Filter 2 Soot Sensor Analysis Frequency 3 
The analysis frequency associated with the frequency 3 soot signal for the diesel particulate filter 2 soot sensor. See 
SPN 5646. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 MHz/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 MHz Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64726 
(R) SPN 5653 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Particulate Filter 2 Soot Sensor Frequency 3 Soot Signal 
The soot signal attenuation measurement for analysis frequency 3 for the diesel particulate filter 2 soot sensor. See SPN 
5646.
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.0025 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 160.6375 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64726 
(R) SPN 5654 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Particulate Filter 2 Soot Sensor Analysis Frequency 4 
The analysis frequency associated with the frequency 4 soot signal for the diesel particulate filter 2 soot sensor. See 
SPN 5647. 
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.1 MHz/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 6425.5 MHz Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64726 
(R) SPN 5655 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Particulate Filter 2 Soot Sensor Frequency 4 Soot Signal 
The soot signal attenuation measurement for analysis frequency 4 for the diesel particulate filter 2 soot sensor. See SPN 
5647.
Data Length: 2 bytes 
Resolution: 0.0025 %/bit, 0 offset 
Data Range: 0 to 160.6375 % Operational Range: same as data range 
Type: Status 
Supporting Information: 
PGN reference: 64726 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 906 -
APPENDIX C 
PGNs
PGN 0 Torque/Speed Control 1 TSC1 
NOTE - Retarder may be disabled by commanding a torque limit of 0%. Use of the limit mode allows the use of the 
retarder only up to the limit specified in the request. This can be used to permit retarding of up to 50%, for example, if that
limit is required by some device such as an EBS, or it can disable the use of the retarder by others, as when an ABS 
controller detects wheel slip. 
Note that the 10 ms transmission repetition rate is intended for temporary powertrain control (P32 of SPN 3350). Slower 
transmission rates (for control purposes P1 through P31 of SPN 3350) may be supported for longer duration control. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: To engine: Control Purpose dependent or 10 ms 
To retarder: 50 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 0 
PDU Specific: DA PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 3 
Parameter Group Number: 0 (0x000000) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits Engine Override Control Mode 695 
1.3 2 bits Engine Requested Speed Control Conditions 696 
1.5 2 bits Override Control Mode Priority 897 
2-3 2 bytes Engine Requested Speed/Speed Limit 898 
4 1 byte Engine Requested Torque/Torque Limit 518 
5.1 3 bits TSC1 Transmission Rate 3349 
5.4 5 bits TSC1 Control Purpose 3350 
6.1 4 bits Engine Requested Torque - High Resolution 4191 
8.1 4 bits Message Counter 4206 
8.5 4 bits Message Checksum 4207 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 907 -
PGN 256 Transmission Control 1 TC1 
Transmission Repetition Rate: When active; 50 ms to transmission and axles 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 1 
PDU Specific: DA PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 3 
Parameter Group Number: 256 (0x000100) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits Transmission Gear Shift Inhibit Request 681 
1.3 2 bits Transmission Torque Converter Lockup Disable Request 682 
1.5 2 bits Disengage Driveline Request 683 
1.7 2 bits Transmission Reverse Gear Shift Inhibit Request 4242 
2 1 byte Requested Percent Clutch Slip 684 
3 1 byte Transmission Requested Gear 525 
4.1 2 bits Disengage Differential Lock Request - Front Axle 1 685 
4.3 2 bits Disengage Differential Lock Request - Front Axle 2 686 
4.5 2 bits Disengage Differential Lock Request - Rear Axle 1 687 
4.7 2 bits Disengage Differential Lock Request - Rear Axle 2 688 
5.1 2 bits Disengage Differential Lock Request - Central 689 
5.3 2 bits Disengage Differential Lock Request - Central Front 690 
5.5 2 bits Disengage Differential Lock Request - Central Rear 691 
6.1 2 bits Transmission Mode 1 1852 
6.3 2 bits Transmission Mode 2 1853 
6.5 2 bits Transmission Mode 3 1854 
6.7 2 bits Transmission Mode 4 1855 
7.3 4 bits Transmission Requested Launch Gear 4255 
7.7 2 bits Transmission Shift Selector Display Mode Switch 2985 
8.1 2 bits Transmission Mode 5 4246 
8.3 2 bits Transmission Mode 6 4247 
8.5 2 bits Transmission Mode 7 4248 
8.7 2 bits Transmission Mode 8 4249 
PGN 1024 External Brake Request XBR 
Used for brake control by an external device. The receiver is the brake system controlling the axle and/or wheel brakes. 
This system has to process the demanded acceleration. Note: This PGN shall not be used for external control of engine, 
engine brakes (engine retarders) or driveline retarders. Use TSC1 PGN instead. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: When active: 20 ms; else 200 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 4 
PDU Specific: DA PGN Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 1024 
Default Priority: 3 
Parameter Group Number: 1024 (0x000400) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes External Acceleration Demand 2920 
3.1 2 bits XBR EBI Mode 2914 
3.3 2 bits XBR Priority 2915 
3.5 2 bits XBR Control Mode 2916 
4 1 byte XBR urgency 4099 
8.1 4 bits XBR Message Counter 3189 
8.5 4 bits XBR Message Checksum 3188 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 908 -
PGN 1792 General Purpose Valve Pressure GPV4 
The measured load sense pressure and pilot pressure of a valve. May also include the load sense and supply pressure 
for a valve assembly, when available. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 100 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 7 
PDU Specific: DA PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 1792 (0x000700) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Valve Load Sense Pressure 4086 
3 1 byte Valve Pilot Pressure 4087 
4-5 2 bytes Valve Assembly Load sense Pressure 4088 
6-7 2 bytes Valve Assembly Supply Pressure 4089 
PGN 2048 Auxiliary Input/Output Status 5 AUXIO5 
Notes: 
Implementers are encouraged to use specific functional SPNs whenever possible. 
AUXIO PGNs are intended for two categories of use in which fixed mapping to functions is not possible: 
1) Generic I/O devices 
2) Applications lacking defined input and output functionality. 
Use, or request new, functionally defined parameters in all other cases. 
Implementers and integrators considering using AUXIO PGNs should be cautious of conflicts that can arise from multiple 
users on a single system. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: Manufacturer defined, not faster than 20 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 8 
PDU Specific: DA PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 3 
Parameter Group Number: 2048 (0x000800) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Auxiliary I/O Channel #6 4155 
3-4 2 bytes Auxiliary I/O Channel #5 4156 
5-6 2 bytes Auxiliary I/O Channel #4 4157 
7-8 2 bytes Auxiliary I/O Channel #3 4158 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 909 -
(R) PGN 2304 Static Roll Angle Sensor Information SRASI 
Contains Static Roll Angle Data and Status of the Static Roll Angle Sensor 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 100 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 9 
PDU Specific: DA PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 3 
Parameter Group Number: 2304 (0x000900) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Static Roll Angle 5582 
2.1 3 bits Static Roll Angle Status 5583 
(R) PGN 2560 Cruise Control / Vehicle Speed 2 CCVS2 
Cruise Control / Vehicle Speed 2 
Transmission Repetition Rate: Every 100 ms and on change but no faster than 20 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 10 
PDU Specific: DA PGN Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN2560_A 
Default Priority: 3 
Parameter Group Number: 2560 (0x000A00) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits Cruise Control Disable Command 5603 
1.3 2 bits Cruise Control Resume Command 5604 
1.5 2 bits Cruise Control Pause Command 5605 
(R) PGN 36608 Engine Configuration Commands ECC 
This PGN contains parameters that are used to configure engine operation. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: Every 10 seconds and on change but no faster than 1 second. 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 143 
PDU Specific: DA PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 36608 (0x008F00) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits Coolant Level Engine Protection Shutdown Override Command 5565 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 910 -
(R) PGN 36864 Supplemental Fan Command SFC 
Command message to control the speed and direction of Supplemental Fan for additional cooling beyond that of the 
primary cooling fan. For Example, this fan could be used to provide additional cooling to an aftertreatment system 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 second 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 144 
PDU Specific: DA PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 36864 (0x009000) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits Supplemental Fan Enable Command 5552 
1.3 2 bits Supplemental Fan Direction Command 5553 
2-3 2 bytes Supplemental Fan Speed Command 5554 
4.1 2 bits Supplemental Fan Power Hold 5555 
(R) PGN 37120 Vehicle/Chassis Lubrication System 1 VLS1 
Used to command a vehicle/chassis lubrication system 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 145 
PDU Specific: DA PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 37120 (0x009100) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits Lubrication Cycle Mode Lock Command 5510 
1.3 3 bits Lubrication Cycle Set Command 5511 
1.6 3 bits Lubrication Operation Mode Set Command 5512 
2.1 2 bits Lubrication Pump Enable Command 5513 
2.3 2 bits Lubrication Timing Cycle Command 5514 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 911 -
(R) PGN 37376 Aftertreatment 1 Hydrocarbon Doser Information 1 HCDI1 
This PGN contains information about the HC Doser and the Diesel Particulate Filter 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 100 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 146 
PDU Specific: DA PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 37376 (0x009200) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Requested Hydrocarbon Doser Fuel Mass Rate 5505 
3.1 3 bits Hydrocarbon Doser Status 5506 
3.4 2 bits Hydrocarbon Doser (HCD) Injecting Status 5507 
3.6 3 bits Diagnostic Status of Hydrocarbon Doser 5508 
4.1 2 bits Hydrocarbon Doser Purging Needed 5509 
PGN 37888 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Particulate Filter Soot Sensor Calibration AT1DPFSSC 
The purpose of this PGN is to group the Aftertreatment 1 DPF soot measurement calibration parameters. These values 
include soot sensor signal mean and standard deviation calibration levels. These calibration levels are associated with 
Diesel Particulate Filter 1 Soot 2 PGN 64761. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On powerup and on request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 148 
PDU Specific: DA PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 8 
Parameter Group Number: 37888 (0x009400) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Particulate Filter Soot Mean Calibration 
Offset
5495
3-4 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Particulate Filter Soot Standard 
Deviation Calibration Offset 
5496
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 912 -
PGN 38144 Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Particulate Filter Soot Sensor Calibration AT2DPFSSC 
The purpose of this PGN is to group the Aftertreatment 2 DPF soot measurement calibration parameters. These values 
include soot sensor signal mean and standard deviation calibration levels. These calibration levels are associated with 
Diesel Particulate Filter 2 Soot 2 PGN 64760. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On powerup and on request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 149 
PDU Specific: DA PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 8 
Parameter Group Number: 38144 (0x009500) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Particulate Filter Soot Mean Calibration 
Offset
5497
3-4 2 bytes Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Particulate Filter Soot Standard 
Deviation Calibration Offset 
5498
PGN 38400 Low Voltage Disconnect Set Operating Mode LVDSOM 
Low Voltage Disconnect (LVD) Set Operating Mode is sent to the LVD to either manuallly override the normal LVD 
function and force the outputs to be disconnected or connected, or to put the LVD back into normal mode. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: As required but no more often than 500 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 150 
PDU Specific: DA PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 38400 (0x009600) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 4 bits Low Voltage Disconnect Desired Operating Mode 5149 
PGN 38656 Noise Control Status NCS 
Used to report the current state of the Noise Control System. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: Every 10 seconds and on change of state, but not faster than 1 second. Every 
second when in tuning mode. 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 151 
PDU Specific: DA PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 38656 (0x009700) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits Cab Noise Control Status 5059 
1.3 4 bits Cab Noise Control Tuning Status 5060 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 913 -
PGN 38912 Noise Control 1 NC1
Used to issue commands to the Noise Control System. This command PGN typically originates from either a Cab control 
panel or a diagnostic tool. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: Every 10 seconds and on change of state, but not faster than every 1 second. 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 152 
PDU Specific: DA PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 38912 (0x009800) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits Cab Noise Control Command 5057 
1.3 3 bits Cab Noise Control Tuning Command 5058 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 914 -
PGN 39168 Joystick Lamp Command Message JLCM 
Used to transfer joystick lamp command informations which are used to switch on/off/blinking joystick 1...3 lamps 1...10. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 100 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 153 
PDU Specific: DA PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 3 
Parameter Group Number: 39168 (0x009900) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits Joystick 1 Lamp 1 Command 4460 
1.3 2 bits Joystick 1 Lamp 2 Command 4461 
1.5 2 bits Joystick 1 Lamp 3 Command 4462 
1.7 2 bits Joystick 1 Lamp 4 Command 4463 
2.1 2 bits Joystick 1 Lamp 5 Command 4464 
2.3 2 bits Joystick 1 Lamp 6 Command 4465 
2.5 2 bits Joystick 1 Lamp 7 Command 4466 
2.7 2 bits Joystick 1 Lamp 8 Command 4467 
3.1 2 bits Joystick 1 Lamp 9 Command 4468 
3.3 2 bits Joystick 1 Lamp 10 Command 4469 
3.5 2 bits Joystick 2 Lamp 1 Command 4470 
3.7 2 bits Joystick 2 Lamp 2 Command 4471 
4.1 2 bits Joystick 2 Lamp 3 Command 4472 
4.3 2 bits Joystick 2 Lamp 4 Command 4473 
4.5 2 bits Joystick 2 Lamp 5 Command 4474 
4.7 2 bits Joystick 2 Lamp 6 Command 4475 
5.1 2 bits Joystick 2 Lamp 7 Command 4476 
5.3 2 bits Joystick 2 Lamp 8 Command 4477 
5.5 2 bits Joystick 2 Lamp 9 Command 4478 
5.7 2 bits Joystick 2 Lamp 10 Command 4479 
6.1 2 bits Joystick 3 Lamp 1 Command 4480 
6.3 2 bits Joystick 3 Lamp 2 Command 4481 
6.5 2 bits Joystick 3 Lamp 3 Command 4482 
6.7 2 bits Joystick 3 Lamp 4 Command 4483 
7.1 2 bits Joystick 3 Lamp 5 Command 4484 
7.3 2 bits Joystick 3 Lamp 6 Command 4485 
7.5 2 bits Joystick 3 Lamp 7 Command 4486 
7.7 2 bits Joystick 3 Lamp 8 Command 4487 
8.1 2 bits Joystick 3 Lamp 9 Command 4488 
8.3 2 bits Joystick 3 Lamp 10 Command 4489 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 915 -
PGN 39680 Proprietary Method Identification PMI 
This is a standardized mechanism for an ECU to report a listing of the manufacturer specific (i.e. proprietary) methods 
and formats it supports when using the PropA, PropA2, and PropB PGNs (see J1939-21). The ability to support multiple 
manufacturer proprietary methods allows manufacturers to collaborate on application specific communication needs that 
are not of interest to the SAE J1939 committee. The process of selecting a specific method for ECUs that list multiple 
mutually exclusive methods is intended to be defined by the manufacturer and therefore not within the scope of this PGN. 
NOTE—The placement of the Data Dictionary Manufacturer Code and Data Dictionary Method bits into the 4-byte space 
is illustrated in Figure 39680_A (See Appendix D). 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: Variable 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 155 
PDU Specific: DA PGN Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 39680 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 39680 (0x009B00) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2.1 11 bits Data Dictionary Manufacturer Code 4180 
2.4-4 21 bits Data Dictionary Method 4181 
PGN 39936 Auxiliary Input/Output Status 7 AUXIO7 
Notes: 
Implementers are encouraged to use specific functional SPNs whenever possible. 
AUXIO PGNs are intended for two categories of use in which fixed mapping to functions is not possible: 
1) Generic I/O devices 
2) Applications lacking defined input and output functionality. 
Use, or request new, functionally defined parameters in all other cases. 
Implementers and integrators considering using AUXIO PGNs should be cautious of conflicts that can arise from multiple 
users on a single system. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: manufacturer defined, not faster than 100 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 156 
PDU Specific: DA PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 39936 (0x009C00) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Auxiliary I/O Channel #18 4167 
2 1 byte Auxiliary I/O Channel #17 4168 
3 1 byte Auxiliary I/O Channel #16 4169 
4 1 byte Auxiliary I/O Channel #15 4170 
5 1 byte Auxiliary I/O Channel #22 4171 
6 1 byte Auxiliary I/O Channel #21 4172 
7 1 byte Auxiliary I/O Channel #20 4173 
8 1 byte Auxiliary I/O Channel #19 4174 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 916 -
PGN 40192 Auxiliary Input/Output Status 6 AUXIO6 
Notes: 
Implementers are encouraged to use specific functional SPNs whenever possible. 
AUXIO PGNs are intended for two categories of use in which fixed mapping to functions is not possible: 
1) Generic I/O devices 
2) Applications lacking defined input and output functionality. 
Use, or request new, functionally defined parameters in all other cases. 
Implementers and integrators considering using AUXIO PGNs should be cautious of conflicts that can arise from multiple 
users on a single system. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: manufacturer defined, not faster than 100 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 157 
PDU Specific: DA PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 40192 (0x009D00) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Auxiliary I/O Channel #10 4159 
2 1 byte Auxiliary I/O Channel #9 4160 
3 1 byte Auxiliary I/O Channel #8 4161 
4 1 byte Auxiliary I/O Channel #7 4162 
5 1 byte Auxiliary I/O Channel #14 4163 
6 1 byte Auxiliary I/O Channel #13 4164 
7 1 byte Auxiliary I/O Channel #12 4165 
8 1 byte Auxiliary I/O Channel #11 4166 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 917 -
PGN 42240 Auxiliary Input/Output Status 4 AUXIO4 
Notes: 
Implementers are encouraged to use specific functional SPNs whenever possible. 
AUXIO PGNs are intended for two categories of use in which fixed mapping to functions is not possible: 
1) Generic I/O devices 
2) Applications lacking defined input and output functionality. 
Use, or request new, functionally defined parameters in all other cases. 
Implementers and integrators considering using AUXIO PGNs should be cautious of conflicts that can arise from multiple 
users on a single system. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: Manufacturer defined, not faster than 100 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 165 
PDU Specific: DA PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 42240 (0x00A500) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #84 3907 
1.3 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #83 3906 
1.5 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #82 3905 
1.7 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #81 3904 
2.1 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #88 3911 
2.3 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #87 3910 
2.5 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #86 3909 
2.7 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #85 3908 
3.1 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #92 3915 
3.3 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #91 3914 
3.5 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #90 3913 
3.7 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #89 3912 
4.1 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #96 3919 
4.3 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #95 3918 
4.5 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #94 3917 
4.7 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #93 3916 
5.1 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #100 3923 
5.3 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #99 3922 
5.5 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #98 3921 
5.7 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #97 3920 
6.1 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #104 3927 
6.3 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #103 3926 
6.5 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #102 3925 
6.7 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #101 3924 
7.1 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #108 3931 
7.3 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #107 3930 
7.5 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #106 3929 
7.7 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #105 3928 
8.1 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #112 3935 
8.3 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #111 3934 
8.5 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #110 3933 
8.7 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #109 3932 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 918 -
PGN 42496 Auxiliary Input/Output Status 3 AUXIO3 
Notes: 
Implementers are encouraged to use specific functional SPNs whenever possible. 
AUXIO PGNs are intended for two categories of use in which fixed mapping to functions is not possible: 
1) Generic I/O devices 
2) Applications lacking defined input and output functionality. 
Use, or request new, functionally defined parameters in all other cases. 
Implementers and integrators considering using AUXIO PGNs should be cautious of conflicts that can arise from multiple 
users on a single system. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: Manufacturer defined, not faster than 100 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 166 
PDU Specific: DA PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 42496 (0x00A600) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #52 3875 
1.3 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #51 3874 
1.5 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #50 3873 
1.7 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #49 3872 
2.1 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #56 3879 
2.3 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #55 3878 
2.5 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #54 3877 
2.7 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #53 3876 
3.1 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #60 3883 
3.3 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #59 3882 
3.5 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #58 3881 
3.7 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #57 3880 
4.1 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #64 3887 
4.3 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #63 3886 
4.5 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #62 3885 
4.7 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #61 3884 
5.1 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #68 3891 
5.3 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #67 3890 
5.5 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #66 3889 
5.7 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #65 3888 
6.1 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #72 3895 
6.3 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #71 3894 
6.5 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #70 3893 
6.7 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #69 3892 
7.1 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #76 3899 
7.3 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #75 3898 
7.5 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #74 3897 
7.7 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #73 3896 
8.1 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #80 3903 
8.3 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #79 3902 
8.5 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #78 3901 
8.7 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #77 3900 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 919 -
PGN 42752 Auxiliary Input/Output Status 2 AUXIO2 
Notes: 
Implementers are encouraged to use specific functional SPNs whenever possible. 
AUXIO PGNs are intended for two categories of use in which fixed mapping to functions is not possible: 
1) Generic I/O devices 
2) Applications lacking defined input and output functionality. 
Use, or request new, functionally defined parameters in all other cases. 
Implementers and integrators considering using AUXIO PGNs should be cautious of conflicts that can arise from multiple 
users on a single system. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: Manufacturer defined, not faster than 100 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 167 
PDU Specific: DA PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 42752 (0x00A700) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #20 3843 
1.3 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #19 3842 
1.5 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #18 3841 
1.7 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #17 3840 
2.1 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #24 3847 
2.3 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #23 3846 
2.5 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #22 3845 
2.7 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #21 3844 
3.1 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #28 3851 
3.3 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #27 3850 
3.5 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #26 3849 
3.7 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #25 3848 
4.1 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #32 3855 
4.3 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #31 3854 
4.5 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #30 3853 
4.7 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #29 3852 
5.1 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #36 3859 
5.3 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #35 3858 
5.5 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #34 3857 
5.7 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #33 3856 
6.1 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #40 3863 
6.3 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #39 3862 
6.5 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #38 3861 
6.7 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #37 3860 
7.1 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #44 3867 
7.3 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #43 3866 
7.5 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #42 3865 
7.7 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #41 3864 
8.1 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #48 3871 
8.3 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #47 3870 
8.5 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #46 3869 
8.7 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #45 3868 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 920 -
PGN 43008 Text Display DISP1
This provides ASCII text information, for example to an display instrument. Broadcast rate should be on event and 1-5 
seconds due to variable character length. This message is to convey information from an ecu to a display. In its most 
basic usage, it can be used to convey ASCII information to simple displays to show to the operator. The Text Display 
Characters will follow the standard J1939-71 display method. Control characters can be used but not displayed. The 
characters are to be terminated with a 00h or "null" character. Following bytes will be filled with FFh as usual. The null 
character will be used once per pgn transmission, regardless of character string length. 
Byte 2 is reserved for future use, to incorporate priority. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: As required 
Data Length: Variable - up to 200 characters 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 168 
PDU Specific: DA PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 43008 (0x00A800) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 4 bits Text Display Instructions 3613 
3 1 byte Text Display Index 3614 
4 to n Variable - up to 
200 bytes 
followed by an 
NULL delimiter 
Text Display Character 3615 
PGN 43264 Forward Lane Image Command FLIC 
Message containing commands, sent to the forward image controller 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On event 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 169 
PDU Specific: DA PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 43264 (0x00A900) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits Lane Departure Warning Enable Command 3564 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 921 -
PGN 44544 Tire Pressure Reference Setting TPRS 
For setting the tire pressure reference values. 
This message is the setpoint for the PGN 64953 Tire Pressure reference information message. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: As needed 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 174 
PDU Specific: DA PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 44544 (0x00AE00) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 8 bits Tire Location 3192 
2 1 byte Reference Tire Pressure Setting 3193 
PGN 52992 Continuous Torque & Speed Limit Request CTL 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 5 s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 207 
PDU Specific: DA PGN Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 52992 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 52992 (0x00CF00) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Engine Speed Limit Request - Minimum Continuous 1784 
2 1 byte Engine Speed Limit Request - Maximum Continuous 1785 
3 1 byte Engine Torque Limit Request - Minimum Continuous 1786 
4 1 byte Engine Torque Limit Request - Maximum Continuous 1787 
5 1 byte Minimum Continuous Retarder Speed Limit Request 1788 
6 1 byte Maximum Continuous Retarder Speed Limit Request 1789 
7 1 byte Minimum Continuous Retarder Torque Limit Request 1790 
8 1 byte Maximum Continuous Retarder Torque Limit Request 1791 
(R) PGN 53248 Cab Illumination Message CL 
This message contains information that controls illumination devices inside the vehicle's cab. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: Every 5 s and on change of state but no faster than every 100 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 208 
PDU Specific: DA PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 53248 (0x00D000) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Illumination Brightness Percent 1487 
2 1 byte Switch Backlight Illumination Brightness Percent 5532 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 922 -
PGN 53504 Air Suspension Control 6 ASC6 
Used for suspension control 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 100 ms when active 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 209 
PDU Specific: DA PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 3 
Parameter Group Number: 53504 (0x00D100) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Level Preset Front Axle Left 1732 
3-4 2 bytes Level Preset Front Axle Right 1757 
5-6 2 bytes Level Preset Rear Axle Left 1758 
7-8 2 bytes Level Preset Rear Axle Right 1735 
PGN 53760 Air Suspension Control 2 ASC2 
Used for suspension control 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 100 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 210 
PDU Specific: DA PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 3 
Parameter Group Number: 53760 (0x00D200) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits Automatic traction help (load transfer) 2984 
1.3 2 bits Kneeling Request Left Side 1749 
1.5 2 bits Kneeling Request Right Side 1748 
1.7 2 bits Kneeling Control Mode Request 1747 
2.1 4 bits Nominal Level Request Front Axle 1751 
2.5 4 bits Nominal Level Request Rear Axle 1750 
3.1 4 bits Level Control Mode Request 1753 
3.5 2 bits Lift Axle 1 Position Command 1752 
3.7 2 bits Lift Axle 2 Position Command 1828 
4 1 byte Damper Stiffness Request Front Axle 1718 
5 1 byte Damper Stiffness Request Rear Axle 1719 
6 1 byte Damper Stiffness Request Lift / Tag Axle 1720 
7.1 2 bits Kneeling Command - Front Axle 1830 
7.3 2 bits Kneeling Command - Rear Axle 1829 
7.5 2 bits Prohibit air suspension control 3215 
7.7 2 bits Allow Level Control During Braking Command 5293 
8.1 2 bits Speed Dependent Level Control Request 5295 
8.3 2 bits Prohibit Automatic Air Suspension Control 5274 
8.5 4 bits Memory level request 5433 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 923 -
PGN 54528 Time/Date Adjust TDA
Transmission Repetition Rate: As needed 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 213 
PDU Specific: DA PGN Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 65254 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 54528 (0x00D500) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Adjust seconds 1603 
2 1 byte Adjust minutes 1604 
3 1 byte Adjust hours 1605 
4 1 byte Adjust month 1606 
5 1 byte Adjust day 1607 
6 1 byte Adjust year 1608 
7 1 byte Adjust local minute offset 1609 
8 1 byte Adjust local hour offset 1610 
PGN 56320 Anti-theft Status ATS
NOTE–See Figures PGN56320_A to PGN56320_F for examples of Anti-theft message transfers. Bit 1 is the right most 
bit in each byte. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: This message is transmitted in response to an Anti-Theft Request message. This 
message is also sent when the component has an abnormal power interruption. In 
this situation the Anti-Theft Status Report is sent without the Anti-Theft Request. 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 220 
PDU Specific: DA PGN Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 56320 
Default Priority: 7 
Parameter Group Number: 56320 (0x00DC00) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits Anti-theft Encryption Seed Present Indicator 1194 
1.3 2 bits Anti-theft Password Valid Indicator 1195 
1.5 2 bits Anti-theft Component Status States 1196 
1.7 2 bits Anti-theft Modify Password States 1197 
2-8 7 bytes Anti-theft Random Number 1198 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 924 -
(R) PGN 56576 Anti-theft Request ATR
NOTE–See Figures PGN56320_A thru PGN56320_F for examples of Anti-theft message transfers. Bit 1 is the right most 
bit in each byte. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: Transmission of this message is interrupt driven. This message is also transmitted 
upon power-up of the interfacing device sending this message. 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 221 
PDU Specific: DA PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 7 
Parameter Group Number: 56576 (0x00DD00) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.2 2 bits Anti-theft Encryption Indicator States 1199 
1.4 2 bits Anti-theft Desired Exit Mode States 1200 
1.6 3 bits Anti-theft Command States 1201 
2-8 7 bytes Anti-theft Password Representation 1202 
PGN 56832 Reset RESET
NOTE—This message requires an Acknowledgement response (See J1939-21, PGN 59392) from the receiving node.
The use of individual proprietary protocols can still be used instead of the "trip reset" PGN to maintain security. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: When needed 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 222 
PDU Specific: DA PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 7 
Parameter Group Number: 56832 (0x00DE00) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits Trip Group 1 988 
1.3 2 bits Trip Group 2 - Proprietary 989 
2 1 byte Service Component Identification 1584 
3.1 2 bits Engine Build Hours Reset 1211 
3.3 2 bits Steering Straight Ahead Position Reset 3600 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 925 -
(R) PGN 57344 Cab Message 1 CM1 
Message containing parameters originating from the vehicle cab. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 224 
PDU Specific: DA PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 57344 (0x00E000) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Requested Percent Fan Speed 986 
2-3 2 bytes Cab Interior Temperature Command 1691 
4.1 2 bits Auxiliary Heater Coolant Pump Request 1684 
4.3 2 bits Battery Main Switch Hold Request 1682 
4.5 2 bits Operator Seat Direction Switch 1714 
4.7 2 bits Seat Belt Switch 1856 
5.1 2 bits Park Brake Command 5630 
5.3 2 bits Vehicle Limiting Speed Governor Decrement Switch 1655 
5.5 2 bits Vehicle Limiting Speed Governor Increment Switch 1654 
5.7 2 bits Vehicle Limiting Speed Governor Enable Switch 1653 
6.1 2 bits Diesel Particulate Filter Regeneration Inhibit Switch 3695 
6.3 2 bits Diesel Particulate Filter Regeneration Force Switch 3696 
6.5 2 bits Automatic Gear Shifting Enable Switch 1666 
6.7 2 bits Engine Automatic Start Enable Switch 1656 
7.1 4 bits Auxiliary Heater Mode Request 1683 
7.5 2 bits Request Engine Zone Heating 1685 
7.7 2 bits Request Cab Zone Heating 1686 
8 1 byte Selected Maximum Vehicle Speed Limit 2596 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 926 -
PGN 61440 Electronic Retarder Controller 1 ERC1 
NOTE- This message will be transmitted by several types of retarding devices such as engine compression release 
brakes, exhaust system restriction brakes, and driveline retarders using hydraulic, electric, or mechanical friction to slow 
the vehicle. The source address of the message will indicate which one, and the type and location of the retarder are 
available in the Retarder Configuration Message (see PGN 65249) if that detail is important to the receiver.
Users should also be aware that the Shift Assist and Brake Assist switch status in the first byte of this message are to be 
used by other ECUs that might request retarding force from the retarder to know when such assistance is available. The 
state of the “switches” will NOT prevent the retarder from activating if requested, but should be honored by the requester 
(by not sending a request when the appropriate “switch” is not enabled) to prevent unwarranted noise. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 100 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 240 
PDU Specific: 0 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 61440 (0x00F000) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 4 bits Retarder Torque Mode 900 
1.5 2 bits Retarder Enable - Brake Assist Switch 571 
1.7 2 bits Retarder Enable - Shift Assist Switch 572 
2 1 byte Actual Retarder - Percent Torque 520 
3 1 byte Intended Retarder Percent Torque 1085 
4.1 2 bits Engine Coolant Load Increase 1082 
4.3 2 bits Retarder Requesting Brake Light 1667 
4.5 2 bits Retarder Road Speed Limit Switch 4233 
4.7 2 bits Retarder Road Speed Exceeded Status 4234 
5 1 byte Source Address of Controlling Device for Retarder Control 1480 
6 1 byte Drivers Demand Retarder - Percent Torque 1715 
7 1 byte Retarder Selection, non-engine 1716 
8 1 byte Actual Maximum Available Retarder - Percent Torque 1717 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 927 -
PGN 61441 Electronic Brake Controller 1 EBC1 
Used for brake control information 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 100 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 240 
PDU Specific: 1 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 61441 (0x00F001) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits ASR Engine Control Active 561 
1.3 2 bits ASR Brake Control Active 562 
1.5 2 bits Anti-Lock Braking (ABS) Active 563 
1.7 2 bits EBS Brake Switch 1121 
2 1 byte Brake Pedal Position 521 
3.1 2 bits ABS Off-road Switch 575 
3.3 2 bits ASR Off-road Switch 576 
3.5 2 bits ASR "Hill Holder" Switch 577 
3.7 2 bits Traction Control Override Switch 1238 
4.1 2 bits Accelerator Interlock Switch 972 
4.3 2 bits Engine Derate Switch 971 
4.5 2 bits Engine Auxiliary Shutdown Switch 970 
4.7 2 bits Remote Accelerator Enable Switch 969 
5 1 byte Engine Retarder Selection 973 
6.1 2 bits ABS Fully Operational 1243 
6.3 2 bits EBS Red Warning Signal 1439 
6.5 2 bits ABS/EBS Amber Warning Signal (Powered Vehicle) 1438 
6.7 2 bits ATC/ASR Information Signal 1793 
7 1 byte Source Address of Controlling Device for Brake Control 1481 
8.3 2 bits Halt brake switch 2911 
8.5 2 bits Trailer ABS Status 1836 
8.7 2 bits Tractor-Mounted Trailer ABS Warning Signal 1792 
PGN 61442 Electronic Transmission Controller 1 ETC1 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 10 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 240 
PDU Specific: 2 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 3 
Parameter Group Number: 61442 (0x00F002) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits Transmission Driveline Engaged 560 
1.3 2 bits Transmission Torque Converter Lockup Engaged 573 
1.5 2 bits Transmission Shift In Process 574 
1.7 2 bits Transmission Torque Converter Lockup Transition in Process 4816 
2-3 2 bytes Transmission Output Shaft Speed 191 
4 1 byte Percent Clutch Slip 522 
5.1 2 bits Engine Momentary Overspeed Enable 606 
5.3 2 bits Progressive Shift Disable 607 
5.5 2 bits Momentary Engine Maximum Power Enable 5015 
6-7 2 bytes Transmission Input Shaft Speed 161 
8 1 byte Source Address of Controlling Device for Transmission Control 1482 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 928 -
PGN 61443 Electronic Engine Controller 2 EEC2 
Identifies electronic engine control related parameters. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 50 msec (preferred) or Engine Speed Dependent (if required by application) 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 240 
PDU Specific: 3 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 3 
Parameter Group Number: 61443 (0x00F003) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits Accelerator Pedal 1 Low Idle Switch 558 
1.3 2 bits Accelerator Pedal Kickdown Switch 559 
1.5 2 bits Road Speed Limit Status 1437 
1.7 2 bits Accelerator Pedal 2 Low Idle Switch 2970 
2 1 byte Accelerator Pedal Position 1 91 
3 1 byte Engine Percent Load At Current Speed 92 
4 1 byte Remote Accelerator Pedal Position 974 
5 1 byte Accelerator Pedal Position 2 29 
6.1 2 bits Vehicle Acceleration Rate Limit Status 2979 
6.3 2 bits Momentary Engine Maximum Power Enable Feedback 5021 
6.5 2 bits DPF Thermal Management Active 5399 
6.7 2 bits SCR Thermal Management Active 5400 
7 1 byte Actual Maximum Available Engine - Percent Torque 3357 
8 1 byte Estimated Pumping - Percent Torque 5398 
PGN 61444 Electronic Engine Controller 1 EEC1 
Engine related parameters 
Transmission Repetition Rate: engine speed dependent 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 240 
PDU Specific: 4 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 3 
Parameter Group Number: 61444 (0x00F004) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 4 bits Engine Torque Mode 899 
1.5 4 bits Actual Engine - Percent Torque High Resolution 4154 
2 1 byte Driver's Demand Engine - Percent Torque 512 
3 1 byte Actual Engine - Percent Torque 513 
4-5 2 bytes Engine Speed 190 
6 1 byte Source Address of Controlling Device for Engine Control 1483 
7.1 4 bits Engine Starter Mode 1675 
8 1 byte Engine Demand – Percent Torque 2432 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 929 -
PGN 61445 Electronic Transmission Controller 2 ETC2 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 100 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 240 
PDU Specific: 5 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 61445 (0x00F005) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Transmission Selected Gear 524 
2-3 2 bytes Transmission Actual Gear Ratio 526 
4 1 byte Transmission Current Gear 523 
5-6 2 bytes Transmission Requested Range 162 
7-8 2 bytes Transmission Current Range 163 
PGN 61446 Electronic Axle Controller 1 EAC1 
NOTE - Request has to be responded to with as many messages as necessary to transmit all available information. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 500 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 240 
PDU Specific: 6 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 61446 (0x00F006) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 8 bits Location 927 
2.1 2 bits Differential Lock State - Front Axle 1 567 
2.3 2 bits Differential Lock State - Front Axle 2 568 
2.5 2 bits Differential Lock State - Rear Axle 1 569 
2.7 2 bits Differential Lock State - Rear Axle 2 570 
3.1 2 bits Differential Lock State - Central 564 
3.3 2 bits Differential Lock State - Central Front 565 
3.5 2 bits Differential Lock State - Central Rear 566 
4.1 2 bits Front axle group engagement status 3819 
4.3 2 bits Rear axle group engagement status 3820 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 930 -
PGN 61447 Forward Lane Image urgent msg FLI1 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 50 ms (only when active) 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 240 
PDU Specific: 7 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 4 
Parameter Group Number: 61447 (0x00F007) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits Lane Departure Left 3565 
1.3 2 bits Lane Departure Right 3566 
1.5 2 bits Lane Departure Imminent, Right Side 1701 
1.7 2 bits Lane Departure Imminent, Left Side 1700 
PGN 61448 Hydraulic Pressure Governor Info HPG 
Information to be used for a hydraulic pressure governing control system 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 50 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 240 
PDU Specific: 8 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 61448 (0x00F008) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Hydraulic Pressure 1762 
3.1 2 bits Engine Hydraulic Pressure Governor Mode Indicator 1763 
3.3 2 bits Engine Hydraulic Pressure Governor Switch 1764 
3.5 2 bits Fire Apparatus Pump Engagement 2599 
PGN 61449 Vehicle Dynamic Stability Control 2 VDC2 
Contains information which relates to the vehicle's movement. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 10 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 240 
PDU Specific: 9 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 61449 (0x00F009) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Steering Wheel Angle 1807 
3.1 6 bits Steering Wheel Turn Counter 1811 
3.7 2 bits Steering Wheel Angle Sensor Type 1812 
4-5 2 bytes Yaw Rate 1808 
6-7 2 bytes Lateral Acceleration 1809 
8 1 byte Longitudinal Acceleration 1810 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 931 -
PGN 61450 Engine Gas Flow Rate EGF1 
Flow rates of Air and mixed gasses into the engine cylinders. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 50 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 240 
PDU Specific: 10 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 3 
Parameter Group Number: 61450 (0x00F00A) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Engine Exhaust Gas Recirculation 1 (EGR1) Mass Flow Rate 2659 
3-4 2 bytes Engine Intake Air Mass Flow Rate 132 
5-6 2 bytes Engine Exhaust Gas Recirculation 2 (EGR2) Mass Flow Rate 5257 
PGN 61451 Electronic Steering Control ESC1 
PGN which indicates the actual angle and the status of a steerable axle 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 20 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 240 
PDU Specific: 11 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 61451 (0x00F00B) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Actual Inner wheel steering angle 2927 
3 8 bits Axle Location 2928 
4.1 4 bits Status of Steering Axle 2923 
4.5 2 bits Steerable Lift Axle Lowering Inhibit 2922 
5.1 4 bits Steering Type 2924 
5.5 4 bits Type of Steering Forces 2925 
6.1 4 bits Type of Steering Transmission 2926 
PGN 61452 Electronic Transmission Controller #8 ETC8 
Electronic Transmission Controller #8 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 20 ms when torque converter unlocked, 100 ms when torque converter locked 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 240 
PDU Specific: 12 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 3 
Parameter Group Number: 61452 (0x00F00C) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Transmission Torque Converter Ratio 3030 
3-4 2 bytes Transmission Clutch/Converter Input Speed 5052 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 932 -
PGN 61453 Land Leveling System Operational Information LOI 
Group of operational parameters associated with the Land Leveling System, such as switch states. This is provided to 
the device controlling the blade, and is usually directed at the primary land leveling controller. 
Notes: 
1. The parameter group is filled with SPNs sent to the Land Leveling System controller. Similar PGNs exist, 65138 for 
example, but PGN 65138 is sent out by the Land Leveling System primary controller to reflect the mode the land leveling 
system has been put into (auto, manual). This logical decision to put the system into auto/manual mode is based in part 
on the input from this PGN, along with other various inputs. It makes more sense to create this PGN filled with 
parameters sourced from the non-primary controller, rather than use the PGN sourced by the primary controller itself. In 
the future, other SPNs coming from the non-primary controller can be added to the PGN. There are plans to add more 
switch values in the future. 
2. Other systems with automated blade controls should be able to use this parameter group, since it contains measured 
switch values. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 100 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 240 
PDU Specific: 13 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 3 
Parameter Group Number: 61453 (0x00F00D) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 4 bits Blade Control Mode Switch 3156 
1.5 4 bits Desired Grade Offset Switch 3157 
2.1 4 bits Blade Auto Mode Command 3158 
2.5 4 bits Left Blade Control Mode Operator Control 3334 
3.1 4 bits Right Blade Control Mode Operator Control 3335 
3.5 4 bits Left Desired Blade Offset Operator Control 3336 
4.1 4 bits Right Desired Blade Offset Operator Control 3337 
4.5 4 bits Side-shift Blade Control Mode Operator Control 3338 
5.1 4 bits Side-shift Desired Blade Offset Operator Control 3339 
5.5 2 bits Set Elevation Sensor #1 Reference Elevation 5405 
5.7 2 bits Set Elevation Sensor #2 Reference Elevation 5406 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 933 -
PGN 61454 Aftertreatment 1 Intake Gas 1 AT1IG1 
The purpose of this PGN is to group the aftertreatment intake sensor data for bank 1. These values include the NOx, 
%O2 , Status's of the sensors with respect to the power being supplied and the heating element, errors and stability of the 
readings.
Transmission Repetition Rate: 50 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 240 
PDU Specific: 14 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 61454 (0x00F00E) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Intake NOx 3216 
3-4 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Intake O2 3217 
5.1 2 bits Aftertreatment 1 Intake Gas Sensor Power Status 3218 
5.3 2 bits Aftertreatment 1 Intake Gas Sensor at Temperature 3219 
5.5 2 bits Aftertreatment 1 Intake NOx Reading Stable 3220 
5.7 2 bits Aftertreatment 1 Intake Wide-Range % O2 Reading Stable 3221 
6.1 5 bits Aftertreatment 1 Intake Gas Sensor Heater Preliminary FMI 3222 
6.6 2 bits Aftertreatment 1 Intake Gas Sensor Heater Control 3223 
7.1 5 bits Aftertreatment 1 Intake NOx Sensor Preliminary FMI 3224 
8.1 5 bits Aftertreatment 1 Intake Oxygen Sensor Preliminary FMI 3225 
PGN 61455 Aftertreatment 1 Outlet Gas 1 AT1OG1 
The purpose of this PGN is to group the aftertreatment outlet sensor data for bank 1. These values include the NOx, 
%O2 , Status's of the sensors with respect to the power being supplied and the heating element, errors and stability of the 
readings.
Transmission Repetition Rate: 50 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 240 
PDU Specific: 15 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 61455 (0x00F00F) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Outlet NOx 3226 
3-4 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Outlet O2 3227 
5.1 2 bits Aftertreatment 1 Outlet Gas Sensor Power Status 3228 
5.3 2 bits Aftertreatment 1 Outlet Gas Sensor at Temperature 3229 
5.5 2 bits Aftertreatment 1 Outlet NOx Reading Stable 3230 
5.7 2 bits Aftertreatment 1 Outlet Wide-Range %O2 Reading Stable 3231 
6.1 5 bits Aftertreatment 1 Outlet Gas Sensor Heater Preliminary FMI 3232 
6.6 2 bits Aftertreatment 1 Outlet Gas Sensor Heater Control 3233 
7.1 5 bits Aftertreatment 1 Outlet NOx Sensor Preliminary FMI 3234 
8.1 5 bits Aftertreatment 1 Outlet Oxygen Sensor Preliminary FMI 3235 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 934 -
PGN 61456 Aftertreatment 2 Intake Gas 1 AT2IG1 
The purpose of this PGN is to group the aftertreatment intake sensor data for bank 2. These values include the NOx, 
%O2, status of the sensors with respect to the power being supplied and the heating element, errors and stability of the 
readings.
Transmission Repetition Rate: 50 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 240 
PDU Specific: 16 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 61456 (0x00F010) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Aftertreatment 2 Intake NOx 3255 
3-4 2 bytes Aftertreatment 2 Intake O2 3256 
5.1 2 bits Aftertreatment 2 Intake Gas Sensor Power Status 3257 
5.3 2 bits Aftertreatment 2 Intake Gas Sensor at Temperature 3258 
5.5 2 bits Aftertreatment 2 Intake NOx Reading Stable 3259 
5.7 2 bits Aftertreatment 2 Intake Wide-Range % O2 Reading Stable 3260 
6.1 5 bits Aftertreatment 2 Intake Gas Sensor Heater Preliminary FMI 3261 
6.6 2 bits Aftertreatment 2 Intake Gas Sensor Heater Control 3262 
7.1 5 bits Aftertreatment 2 Intake NOx Sensor Preliminary FMI 3263 
8.1 5 bits Aftertreatment 2 Intake Oxygen Sensor Preliminary FMI 3264 
PGN 61457 Aftertreatment 2 Outlet Gas 1 AT2OG1 
The purpose of this PGN is to group the aftertreatment outlet sensor data for bank 2. These values include the NOx, 
%O2, status of the sensors with respect to the power being supplied and the heating element, errors and stability of the 
readings.
Transmission Repetition Rate: 50 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 240 
PDU Specific: 17 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 61457 (0x00F011) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Aftertreatment 2 Outlet NOx 3265 
3-4 2 bytes Aftertreatment 2 Outlet O2 3266 
5.1 2 bits Aftertreatment 2 Outlet Gas Sensor Power Status 3267 
5.3 2 bits Aftertreatment 2 Outlet Gas Sensor at Temperature 3268 
5.5 2 bits Aftertreatment 2 Outlet NOx Reading Stable 3269 
5.7 2 bits Aftertreatment 2 Outlet Wide-Range % O2 Reading Stable 3270 
6.1 5 bits Aftertreatment 2 Outlet Gas Sensor Heater Preliminary FMI 3271 
6.6 2 bits Aftertreatment 2 Outlet Gas Sensor Heater Control 3272 
7.1 5 bits Aftertreatment 2 Outlet NOx Sensor Preliminary FMI 3273 
8.1 5 bits Aftertreatment 2 Outlet Oxygen Sensor Preliminary FMI 3274 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 935 -
PGN 61458 Fifth Wheel Smart Systems 1 FWSS1 
Fifth wheel smart system information. Parameters used to determine the status of the tractor to trailer coupling system 
integrity.
Transmission Repetition Rate: 50 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 240 
PDU Specific: 18 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 61458 (0x00F012) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Fifth Wheel Vertical Force 3308 
3-4 2 bytes Fifth Wheel Drawbar Force 3309 
5-6 2 bytes Fifth Wheel Roll Moment 3310 
7.1 2 bits Fifth Wheel Roll Warning Indicator 3317 
(R) PGN 61459 Slope Sensor Information SSI 
The Slope Sensor Information message shall provide a measurement of the vehicles pitch angle, a measurement of the 
vehicles roll angle, and a measurement of the vehicles pitch rate. The vehicle dynamics measurements in this message 
shall be according to a Z-Down axis system as referenced in SAE J670. 
Note 1) When this PGN is used to transmit information from a device not attached to the vehicle, the components local 
frame of reference shall be used. 
Note 2) The NAME of the source of the PGN shall to used to associate to the frame of reference. (e.g, Machine control 
will report vehicle pitch and roll, blade control will report blade pitch and roll). 
The data within the message shall contain the measured pitch, roll, and pitch rate, figure of merits for the three 
measurements, a compensated measurement indicator, and measurement latency for the sensor measurements. 
Note 1) When this PGN is used to transmit information from a device not attached to the vehicle, the components local 
frame of reference shall be used. 
Note 2) The NAME of the source of the PGN shall to used to associate to the frame of reference. (e.g, Machine control 
will report vehicle pitch and roll, blade control will report blade pitch and roll). 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 10 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 240 
PDU Specific: 19 PGN Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 61459 
Default Priority: 3 
Parameter Group Number: 61459 (0x00F013) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Pitch Angle 3318 
3-4 2 bytes Roll Angle 3319 
5-6 2 bytes Pitch Rate 3322 
7.1 2 bits Pitch Angle Figure of Merit 3323 
7.3 2 bits Roll Angle Figure of Merit 3324 
7.5 2 bits Pitch Rate Figure of Merit 3325 
7.7 2 bits Pitch and Roll Compensated 3326 
8 1 byte Roll and Pitch Measurement Latency 3327 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 936 -
(R) PGN 61460 Blade Information BI
A measurement of the machine's relative blade height and a rotational angle measurement of the machine blade yaw 
angle around the machine z-axis. The vehicle dynamics measurements in this message shall be according to a Z-Down 
axis system as referenced in SAE J670. 
The data in the message is intended to be accurate enough for real-time control. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 50 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 240 
PDU Specific: 20 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 3 
Parameter Group Number: 61460 (0x00F014) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Relative Blade Height 3365 
3-4 2 bytes Blade Rotation Angle 3331 
5 1 byte Relative Blade Height and Blade Rotation Angle Measurement 
Latency 
3366
6.1 2 bits Relative Blade Height Figure of Merit 3367 
6.3 2 bits Blade Rotation Angle Figure of Merit 3332 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 937 -
PGN 61462 Cylinder Combustion Status CCS 
Used to send the SPNs containing information relating to the state of combustion for 24 cylinders. When there is no 
combustion detected on any one cylinder, this PGN needs to be sent every crank revolution (engine speed dependant). If 
combustion is good on all cylinders, 5 seconds would be satisfactory for a transmission rate. This will allow 
communication between a separate module monitoring combustion inside the engine cylinders and the control module 
that needs this information to make engine related decisions. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: Engine speed dependent when there is no combustion, once every 5 seconds 
otherwise
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 240 
PDU Specific: 22 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 3 
Parameter Group Number: 61462 (0x00F016) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits Engine Cylinder 1 Combustion Status 3387 
1.3 2 bits Engine Cylinder 2 Combustion Status 3388 
1.5 2 bits Engine Cylinder 3 Combustion Status 3389 
1.7 2 bits Engine Cylinder 4 Combustion Status 3390 
2.1 2 bits Engine Cylinder 5 Combustion Status 3391 
2.3 2 bits Engine Cylinder 6 Combustion Status 3392 
2.5 2 bits Engine Cylinder 7 Combustion Status 3393 
2.7 2 bits Engine Cylinder 8 Combustion Status 3394 
3.1 2 bits Engine Cylinder 9 Combustion Status 3395 
3.3 2 bits Engine Cylinder 10 Combustion Status 3396 
3.5 2 bits Engine Cylinder 11 Combustion Status 3397 
3.7 2 bits Engine Cylinder 12 Combustion Status 3398 
4.1 2 bits Engine Cylinder 13 Combustion Status 3399 
4.3 2 bits Engine Cylinder 14 Combustion Status 3400 
4.5 2 bits Engine Cylinder 15 Combustion Status 3401 
4.7 2 bits Engine Cylinder 16 Combustion Status 3402 
5.1 2 bits Engine Cylinder 17 Combustion Status 3403 
5.3 2 bits Engine Cylinder 18 Combustion Status 3404 
5.5 2 bits Engine Cylinder 19 Combustion Status 3405 
5.7 2 bits Engine Cylinder 20 Combustion Status 3406 
6.1 2 bits Engine Cylinder 21 Combustion Status 3407 
6.3 2 bits Engine Cylinder 22 Combustion Status 3408 
6.5 2 bits Engine Cylinder 23 Combustion Status 3409 
6.7 2 bits Engine Cylinder 24 Combustion Status 3410 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 938 -
PGN 61463 Engine Knock Level #1 KL1 
Used to send the SPNs containing information relating to the level of knock for 8 cylinders. When knock is detected on 
any one cylinder, this PGN needs to be sent every crank revolution (engine speed dependant). If there is no knock 
detected on any cylinder, 5 seconds would be satisfactory for a transmission rate. This will allow communication between 
a separate module monitoring combustion inside the engine cylinders and the control module that needs this information 
to make engine related decisions. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: Engine speed dependent when knock present, once every 5 seconds otherwise 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 240 
PDU Specific: 23 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 3 
Parameter Group Number: 61463 (0x00F017) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Engine Cylinder 1 Knock Level 1352 
2 1 byte Engine Cylinder 2 Knock Level 1353 
3 1 byte Engine Cylinder 3 Knock Level 1354 
4 1 byte Engine Cylinder 4 Knock Level 1355 
5 1 byte Engine Cylinder 5 Knock Level 1356 
6 1 byte Engine Cylinder 6 Knock Level 1357 
7 1 byte Engine Cylinder 7 Knock Level 1358 
8 1 byte Engine Cylinder 8 Knock Level 1359 
PGN 61464 Engine Knock Level #2 KL2 
Used to send the SPNs containing information relating to the level of knock for 8 cylinders. When knock is detected on 
any one cylinder, this PGN needs to be sent every crank revolution (engine speed dependant). If there is no knock 
detected on any cylinder, 5 seconds would be satisfactory for a transmission rate. This will allow communication between 
a separate module monitoring combustion inside the engine cylinders and the control module that needs this information 
to make engine related decisions. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: Engine speed dependent when knock present, once every 5 seconds otherwise 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 240 
PDU Specific: 24 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 3 
Parameter Group Number: 61464 (0x00F018) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Engine Cylinder 9 Knock Level 1360 
2 1 byte Engine Cylinder 10 Knock Level 1361 
3 1 byte Engine Cylinder 11 Knock Level 1362 
4 1 byte Engine Cylinder 12 Knock Level 1363 
5 1 byte Engine Cylinder 13 Knock Level 1364 
6 1 byte Engine Cylinder 14 Knock Level 1365 
7 1 byte Engine Cylinder 15 Knock Level 1366 
8 1 byte Engine Cylinder 16 Knock Level 1367 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 939 -
PGN 61465 Engine Knock Level #3 KL3 
Used to send the SPNs containing information relating to the level of knock for 8 cylinders. When knock is detected on 
any one cylinder, this PGN needs to be sent every crank revolution (engine speed dependant). If there is no knock 
detected on any cylinder, 5 seconds would be satisfactory for a transmission rate. This will allow communication between 
a separate module monitoring combustion inside the engine cylinders and the control module that needs this information 
to make engine related decisions. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: Engine speed dependent when knock present, once every 5 seconds otherwise 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 240 
PDU Specific: 25 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 3 
Parameter Group Number: 61465 (0x00F019) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Engine Cylinder 17 Knock Level 1368 
2 1 byte Engine Cylinder 18 Knock Level 1369 
3 1 byte Engine Cylinder 19 Knock Level 1370 
4 1 byte Engine Cylinder 20 Knock Level 1371 
5 1 byte Engine Cylinder 21 Knock Level 1372 
6 1 byte Engine Cylinder 22 Knock Level 1373 
7 1 byte Engine Cylinder 23 Knock Level 1374 
8 1 byte Engine Cylinder 24 Knock Level 1375 
PGN 61466 Engine Throttle / Fuel Actuator Control Command TFAC 
Used to control networked electronic throttle control actuator and/or fuel control actuator valves. Otherwise, this PGN can 
be used to monitor commanded % positioning to electronic throttle control actuator and/or fuel control actuator valves. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 50 msec (preferred) or Engine Speed Dependent (if required by application) 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 240 
PDU Specific: 26 PGN Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 61466 
Default Priority: 4 
Parameter Group Number: 61466 (0x00F01A) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Engine Throttle Actuator 1 Control Command 3464 
3-4 2 bytes Engine Throttle Actuator 2 Control Command 3465 
5-6 2 bytes Engine Fuel Actuator 1 Control Command 633 
7-8 2 bytes Engine Fuel Actuator 2 Control Command 1244 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 940 -
PGN 61469 Steering Angle Sensor Information SAS 
Contains information which relates to a steering angle sensor. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 10 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 240 
PDU Specific: 29 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 61469 (0x00F01D) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Steering Wheel Angle 3683 
3.1 6 bits Steering Wheel Angle Range Counter 3684 
3.7 2 bits Steering Wheel Angle Range Counter Type 3685 
5-6 2 bytes Steering Wheel Angle Range 3686 
7.1 2 bits Steering Angle Sensor Active Mode 3687 
7.3 2 bits Steering Angle Sensor Calibrated 3688 
8.1 4 bits Message Counter 3689 
8.5 4 bits Message Checksum 3690 
PGN 61473 Engine Speed Sensor Information ESSI 
This PGN contains the speed information and status signal of each engine speed sensor. This message is used for 
service to troubleshoot no-start or hard start problems. This message is not needed except for servicing. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: Transmitted only after requested. After request, broadcast rate is engine speed 
dependent. Update stopped after key switch cycle. 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 240 
PDU Specific: 33 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 61473 (0x00F021) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Engine Speed 1 4201 
3-4 2 bytes Engine Speed 2 723 
5-6 2 bytes Engine Speed 3 4202 
7.3 2 bits Engine Speed Sensor 3 Timing Pattern Status 4205 
7.5 2 bits Engine Speed Sensor 2 Timing Pattern Status 4204 
7.7 2 bits Engine Speed Sensor 1 Timing Pattern Status 4203 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 941 -
PGN 61475 Aftertreatment 1 SCR Dosing System Information 1 A1SCRDSI1 
This message contains SCR dosing system information for aftertreatment system 1 (or bank 1). See PGN 64833 for 
more information. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 50 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 240 
PDU Specific: 35 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 3 
Parameter Group Number: 61475 (0x00F023) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Actual Dosing Quantity 4331 
3.1 4 bits Aftertreatment 1 SCR System State 4332 
4-5 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Actual Quantity of 
Integrator
4333
6 1 byte Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Doser Absolute Pressure 4334 
PGN 61476 Aftertreatment 1 SCR Dosing System Requests 1 A1SCRDSR1 
This message contains SCR dosing system request information for aftertreatment system 1 (or bank 1). See PGN 64832 
for more information. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 50 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 240 
PDU Specific: 36 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 3 
Parameter Group Number: 61476 (0x00F024) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Dosing Requested 
Quantity 
4348
3.1 4 bits Aftertreatment 1 SCR System Requested State 4349 
4-5 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Requested Quantity of 
Integrator
4350
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 942 -
PGN 61477 Aftertreatment 1 SCR Ammonia Information A1SCRAI 
This message contains aftertreatment outlet ammonia information for aftertreatment system 1 (or bank 1). 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 50 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 240 
PDU Specific: 37 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 3 
Parameter Group Number: 61477 (0x00F025) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Outlet NH3 4377 
3.1 5 bits Aftertreatment 1 Outlet NH3 Sensor Preliminary FMI 4378 
4.1 2 bits Aftertreatment 1 Outlet NH3 Reading Stable 4379 
4.3 2 bits Aftertreatment 1 Outlet NH3 Gas Sensor Power In Range 4380 
4.5 2 bits Aftertreatment 1 Outlet NH3 Gas Sensor at Temperature 4381 
5.1 5 bits Aftertreatment 1 Outlet NH3 Gas Sensor Heater Preliminary 
FMI
4382
6.1 2 bits Aftertreatment 1 Outlet NH3 Gas Sensor Heater Control 4383 
PGN 61478 Aftertreatment 2 SCR Dosing System Information 1 A2SCRDSI1 
This message contains SCR dosing system information for aftertreatment system 2 (or bank 2). See PGN 64827 for 
more information. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 50 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 240 
PDU Specific: 38 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 3 
Parameter Group Number: 61478 (0x00F026) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Actual Dosing Quantity 4384 
3.1 4 bits Aftertreatment 2 SCR System State 4385 
4-5 2 bytes Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Actual Quantity of 
Integrator
4386
6 1 byte Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Dosing Absolute 
Pressure
4387
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 943 -
PGN 61479 Aftertreatment 2 SCR Dosing System Requests 1 A2SCRDSR1 
This message contains SCR dosing system request information for aftertreatment system 2 (or bank 2). 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 50 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 240 
PDU Specific: 39 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 3 
Parameter Group Number: 61479 (0x00F027) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Dosing Requested 
Quantity 
4401
3.1 4 bits Aftertreatment 2 SCR System Requested State 4402 
4-5 2 bytes Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Requested Quantity of 
Integrator
4403
PGN 61480 Aftertreatment 2 SCR Ammonia Information A2SCRAI 
This message contains outlet ammonia information for aftertreatment system 2 (or bank 2). 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 50 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 240 
PDU Specific: 40 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 3 
Parameter Group Number: 61480 (0x00F028) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Aftertreatment 2 Outlet NH3 4443 
3.1 5 bits Aftertreatment 2 Outlet NH3 Sensor Preliminary FMI 4444 
4.1 2 bits Aftertreatment 2 Outlet NH3 Reading Stable 4445 
4.3 2 bits Aftertreatment 2 Outlet NH3 Gas Sensor Power In Range 4446 
4.5 2 bits Aftertreatment 2 Outlet NH3 Gas Sensor at Temperature 4447 
5.1 5 bits Aftertreatment 2 Outlet NH3 Gas Sensor Heater Preliminary 
FMI
4448
6.1 2 bits Aftertreatment 2 Outlet NH3 Gas Sensor Heater Control 4449 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 944 -
(R) PGN 61481 Slope Sensor Information 2 SSI2 
The Slope Sensor Information 2 message shall provide a measurement of the vehicle's extended pitch angle and a 
measurement of the vehicle's extended roll angle. The vehicle dynamics measurements in this message shall be 
according to a Z-Down axis system as referenced in SAE J670. 
Note 1) When this PGN is used to transmit information from a device not attached to the vehicle, the components local 
frame of reference shall be used. 
Note 2) The NAME of the source of the PGN shall to used to associate to the frame of reference. (e.g, Machine control 
will report vehicle pitch and roll, blade control will report blade pitch and roll). 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 10 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 240 
PDU Specific: 41 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 3 
Parameter Group Number: 61481 (0x00F029) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-3 3 bytes Pitch Angle Extended Range 4976 
4-6 3 bytes Roll Angle Extended Range 4977 
7.1 2 bits Pitch Angle Extended Range Compensation 4978 
7.3 2 bits Pitch Angle Extended Range Figure of Merit 4979 
7.5 2 bits Roll Angle Extended Range Compensation 4980 
7.7 2 bits Roll Angle Extended Range Figure of Merit 4981 
8 1 byte Roll and Pitch Extended Range Measurement Latency 4982 
(R) PGN 61482 Angular Rate Information ARI 
The Angular Rate Information message shall provide a measurement of the vehicle's pitch rate, roll rate, and yaw rate 
measurements. The vehicle dynamics measurements in this message shall be according to a Z-Down axis system as 
referenced in SAE J670. 
Note 1) When this PGN is used to transmit information from a device not attached to the vehicle, the components local 
frame of reference shall be used. 
Note 2) The NAME of the source of the PGN shall to used to associate to the frame of reference. (e.g, Machine control 
will report vehicle pitch rate, roll rate, and yaw rate. Blade control will report blade pitch rate, roll rate, and yaw rate).
Transmission Repetition Rate: 10 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 240 
PDU Specific: 42 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 3 
Parameter Group Number: 61482 (0x00F02A) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Pitch Rate Extended Range 4983 
3-4 2 bytes Roll Rate Extended Range 4984 
5-6 2 bytes Yaw Rate Extended Range 4985 
7.1 2 bits Pitch Rate Extended Range Figure of Merit 4986 
7.3 2 bits Roll Rate Extended Range Figure of Merit 4987 
7.5 2 bits Yaw Rate Extended Range Figure of Merit 4988 
8 1 byte Angular Rate Measurement Latency 4989 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 945 -
PGN 61483 Crash Notification CN
This message is transmitted in case of a crash event. 
The message contains information about the Crash Type, a Crash Counter and a Checksum. The function of the Crash 
Counter is to prevent other ECU's from reacting to a faulty transmission of the Crash Information message. 
Therefore the Crash Counter becomes incremented by 1 for every sent message, beginning with "0" for the first message. 
Other ECUs should react on a state change in order to distinguish between a faulty transmission and a real crash event. 
The Crash Checksum provides an additional verification of the signal path. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: Transmitted every 20 msec for the first 100 msec and then broadcast every 1 sec for 
10 sec in case of a crash event 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 240 
PDU Specific: 43 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 0 
Parameter Group Number: 61483 (0x00F02B) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 5 bits Crash Type 4973 
8.1 4 bits Crash Counter 4974 
8.5 4 bits Crash Checksum 4975 
(R) PGN 61484 Magnet Status Information 2 MSI2 
This message carries data related to the status of the magnetic material handling system, possibly including the generator 
that provides power to the magnet. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 50 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 240 
PDU Specific: 44 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 2 
Parameter Group Number: 61484 (0x00F02C) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Magnet Forward Current 5008 
3 1 byte Magnet Reverse Current 5009 
4.1 2 bits Material Lift Switch 5010 
4.3 2 bits Material Drop Switch 5011 
4.5 2 bits Generator Current Boost Active Status 5012 
4.7 2 bits Material Lift Active Status 5013 
5.1 2 bits Material Drop Active Status 5014 
5.3 2 bits Lift Relay Control 5402 
5.5 2 bits Drop Relay Control 5403 
5.7 2 bits Magnet Generator Control 5551 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 946 -
(R) PGN 61485 Acceleration Sensor ACCS 
The acceleration sensor message shall provide a measurement of the vehicle's acceleration in the lateral, longitudinal, 
and vertical axes. The vehicle dynamics measurements in this message shall be according to a Z-Up axis system as 
referenced in SAE J670. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 10 ms (default) or 20 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 240 
PDU Specific: 45 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 2 
Parameter Group Number: 61485 (0x00F02D) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Lateral Acceleration Extended Range 5347 
3-4 2 bytes Longitudinal Acceleration Extended Range 5348 
5-6 2 bytes Vertical Acceleration Extended Range 5349 
7.1 2 bits Lateral Acceleration Extended Range Figure of Merit 5350 
7.3 2 bits Longitudinal Acceleration Extended Range Figure of Merit 5351 
7.5 2 bits Vertical Acceleration Extended Range Figure of Merit 5352 
7.7 2 bits Support Variable Transmission Repetition Rate for Acceleration 
Sensor
5353
(R) PGN 61486 Engine Turbocharger Wastegate Actuator and Exhaust Back Pressure Regulator Command
ETWAC
This PGN will contain the Engine Turbocharger Wastegate Actuator 1 & 2 control and Exhaust Back Pressure Regulator 
commands.
Transmission Repetition Rate: Engine speed dependent 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 240 
PDU Specific: 46 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 61486 (0x00F02E) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Engine Turbocharger Wastegate Actuator 1 Command 5386 
3-4 2 bytes Engine Turbocharger Wastegate Actuator 2 Command 5387 
5-6 2 bytes Engine Exhaust Back Pressure Regulator Control Command 649 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 947 -
(R) PGN 64726 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Particulate Filter 2 Soot 5 AT1DPF2S5 
Diesel particulate filter soot parameters for the aftertreatment 1 diesel particulate filter 2. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 252 
PDU Specific: 214 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64726 (0x00FCD6) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Particulate Filter 2 Soot Sensor 
Analysis Frequency 3 
5652
3-4 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Particulate Filter 2 Soot Sensor 
Frequency 3 Soot Signal 
5653
5-6 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Particulate Filter 2 Soot Sensor 
Analysis Frequency 4 
5654
7-8 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Particulate Filter 2 Soot Sensor 
Frequency 4 Soot Signal 
5655
(R) PGN 64727 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Particulate Filter 2 Soot 4 AT1DPF2S4 
This message is used report the analysis frequency and associated soot sensor signal data for two of the requested 
analysis frequencies for aftertreatment 1 diesel particulate filter 2. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 252 
PDU Specific: 215 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64727 (0x00FCD7) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Particulate Filter 2 Soot Sensor 
Analysis Frequency 1 
5648
3-4 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Particulate Filter 2 Soot Sensor 
Frequency 1 Soot Signal 
5649
5-6 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Particulate Filter 2 Soot Sensor 
Analysis Frequency 2 
5650
7-8 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Particulate Filter 2 Soot Sensor 
Frequency 2 Soot Signal 
5651
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 948 -
(R) PGN 64728 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Particulate Filter 2 Soot 3 AT1DPF2S3 
This message is used to specify up to 4 soot sensor analysis frequencies to request the soot sensor signal data 
associated with those analysis frequencies for aftertreatment 1 diesel particulate filter 2. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 252 
PDU Specific: 216 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64728 (0x00FCD8) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Particulate Filter 2 Soot Sensor 
Analysis Request Frequency 1 
5644
3-4 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Particulate Filter 2 Soot Sensor 
Analysis Request Frequency 2 
5645
5-6 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Particulate Filter 2 Soot Sensor 
Analysis Request Frequency 3 
5646
7-8 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Particulate Filter 2 Soot Sensor 
Analysis Request Frequency 4 
5647
(R) PGN 64729 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Particulate Filter 1 Soot 5 AT1DPF1S5 
This message is used report the analysis frequency and associated soot sensor signal data for two of the requested 
analysis frequencies for the aftertreatment 1 diesel particulate filter 1. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 252 
PDU Specific: 217 PGN Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 64731 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64729 (0x00FCD9) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Particulate Filter 1 Soot Sensor 
Analysis Frequency 3 
5640
3-4 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Particulate Filter 1 Soot Sensor 
Frequency 3 Soot Signal 
5641
5-6 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Particulate Filter 1 Soot Sensor 
Analysis Frequency 4 
5642
7-8 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Particulate Filter 1 Soot Sensor 
Frequency 4 Soot Signal 
5643
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 949 -
(R) PGN 64730 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Particulate Filter 1 Soot 4 AT1DPF1S4 
This message is used report the analysis frequency and associated soot sensor signal data for two of the requested 
analysis frequencies for the aftertreatment 1 diesel particulate filter 1. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 252 
PDU Specific: 218 PGN Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 64731 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64730 (0x00FCDA) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Particulate Filter 1 Soot Sensor 
Analysis Frequency 1 
5636
3-4 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Particulate Filter 1 Soot Sensor 
Frequency 1 Soot Signal 
5637
5-6 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Particulate Filter 1 Soot Sensor 
Analysis Frequency 2 
5638
7-8 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Particulate Filter 1 Soot Sensor 
Frequency 2 Soot Signal 
5639
(R) PGN 64731 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Particulate Filter 1 Soot 3 AT1DPF1S3 
This message is used to specify up to 4 soot sensor analysis frequencies to request the soot sensor signal data 
associated with those analysis frequencies for aftertreatment 1 diesel particulate filter 1. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 252 
PDU Specific: 219 PGN Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 64731 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64731 (0x00FCDB) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Particulate Filter 1 Soot Sensor 
Analysis Request Frequency 1 
5632
3-4 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Particulate Filter 1 Soot Sensor 
Analysis Request Frequency 2 
5633
5-6 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Particulate Filter 1 Soot Sensor 
Analysis Request Frequency 3 
5634
7-8 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Particulate Filter 1 Soot Sensor 
Analysis Request Frequency 4 
5635
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 950 -
(R) PGN 64732 Cruise Control / Vehicle Speed 3 CCVS3 
Cruise Control / Vehicle Speed 3 
Transmission Repetition Rate: Every 1 sec and on change but no faster than 100 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 252 
PDU Specific: 220 PGN Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN2560_A 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64732 (0x00FCDC) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits Adaptive Cruise Control Readiness Status 5606 
1.3 3 bits Cruise Control System Command State 5607 
2 1 byte Source Address of Device Disabling Cruise Control 5608 
3 1 byte Source Address of Device Pausing Cruise Control 5609 
(R) PGN 64733 Aftertreatment 2 Air Control 3 AT2AC3 
This PGN contains information about the Aftertreatment 2 Air Control. 
NOTE: This message will be transmitted by the engine or aftertreatment controller. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 500 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 252 
PDU Specific: 221 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64733 (0x00FCDD) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Aftertreatment 2 Secondary Air Absolute Pressure 5590 
(R) PGN 64734 Aftertreatment 1 Air Control 3 AT1AC3 
This PGN contains information about the Aftertreatment 1 Air Control. 
NOTE: This message will be transmitted by the engine or aftertreatment controller. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 500 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 252 
PDU Specific: 222 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64734 (0x00FCDE) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Secondary Air Absolute Pressure 5589 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 951 -
(R) PGN 64735 Engine Fluid Level/Pressure 12 EFL/P12 
12th PGN which identifies parameters that are either measuring various pressures within the engine or identifying engine 
fluid levels 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 500 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 252 
PDU Specific: 223 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64735 (0x00FCDF) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Engine Fuel Delivery Absolute Pressure 5578 
2 1 byte Engine Filtered Fuel Delivery Pressure 5579 
3 1 byte Engine Filtered Fuel Delivery Absolute Pressure 5580 
4 1 byte Engine Fuel Filter Estimated Useful Life 5584 
(R) PGN 64736 Diesel Particulate Filter Control 2 DPFC2 
The purpose of this PGN is to group parameters about the diesel particulate filter regeneration control. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 100 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 252 
PDU Specific: 224 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64736 (0x00FCE0) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Particulate Filter Intake Temperature 
Set Point 
5501
3-4 2 bytes Relative Unburned Fuel Mass from Engine 5502 
5-6 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Fuel Mass Rate 5503 
(R) PGN 64737 Fuel Economy 2 (Liquid) LFE2 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 100 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 252 
PDU Specific: 225 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64737 (0x00FCE1) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-4 4 bytes High Resolution Engine Fuel Rate 1600 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 952 -
(R) PGN 64738 Supplemental Fan Status SFS 
The status of Supplemental Fan. This is a supplemental fan used for additional cooling beyond that of the primary cooling 
fan system. For example, this fan could be used to provide additional cooling to an aftertreatment system 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 second 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 252 
PDU Specific: 226 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64738 (0x00FCE2) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits Supplemental Fan Enable Status 5556 
1.3 2 bits Supplemental Fan Direction Status 5557 
1.5 4 bits Supplemental Fan Velocity Status 5558 
2.1 3 bits Supplemental Fan Controller Temperature Status 5559 
2.4 4 bits Supplemental Fan Drive Status 5560 
3 1 byte Supplemental Fan Controller ECU Temperature 5561 
4-5 2 bytes Supplemental Fan Speed 5562 
6 1 byte Supplemental Fan Current 5563 
7-8 2 bytes Supplemental Fan Power 5564 
(R) PGN 64739 Engine Exhaust Brake Control EEBC 
Contains information about the engine exhaust brake system control. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 100 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 252 
PDU Specific: 227 PGN Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 64739 
Default Priority: 4 
Parameter Group Number: 64739 (0x00FCE3) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Engine Turbocharger 1 Turbine Outlet Pressure 5541 
2 1 byte Desired Engine Turbocharger 1 Turbine Outlet Pressure 5542 
3 1 byte Engine Exhaust Brake Actuator Command 5543 
4 1 byte Engine Turbocharger 2 Turbine Outlet Pressure 5544 
5 1 byte Desired Engine Turbocharger 2 Turbine Outlet Pressure 5545 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 953 -
(R) PGN 64740 Engine Fuel Properties EFP 
Engine Fuel Properties 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 30 seconds 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 252 
PDU Specific: 228 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64740 (0x00FCE4) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Engine Fuel Dynamic Viscosity 5537 
3-4 2 bytes Engine Fuel Density 5538 
5-6 2 bytes Engine Fuel Dielectricity (high resolution) 5539 
7-8 2 bytes Engine Fuel Temperature (High Resolution) 5540 
(R) PGN 64741 Hydraulic Oil Properties HOP 
Hydraulic Oil Properties. This hydraulic fluid is for the entire hydraulics system of a piece of equipment. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 30 seconds 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 252 
PDU Specific: 229 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64741 (0x00FCE5) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Hydraulic Oil Dynamic Viscosity 5533 
3-4 2 bytes Hydraulic Oil Density 5534 
5-6 2 bytes Hydraulic Oil Relative Dielectricity (high resolution) 5535 
7-8 2 bytes Hydraulic Oil Temperature (High Resolution) 5536 
(R) PGN 64742 Vehicle/Chassis Lubrication System 2 VLS2 
Reports vehicle/chassis lubrication systems status 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 500 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 252 
PDU Specific: 230 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64742 (0x00FCE6) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits Lubrication Cycle Mode Lock Status 5515 
1.3 3 bits Lubrication Cycle Mode Status 5516 
1.6 3 bits Lubrication Operation Mode Status 5517 
2.1 2 bits Lubrication Pump Enable Status 5518 
2.3 2 bits Lubrication Reservoir Level 5519 
2.5 2 bits Lubrication Timing Cycle Status 5520 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 954 -
PGN 64743 Engine Configuration 3 EC3 
The EC3 message contains a static engine friction torque map consisting of torque points that correspond to the speed 
points in the EC1 message. A net brake torque map for the engine can be calculated by subtracting the static engine 
friction torque from the engine’s corresponding indicated torque at each speed point. The static friction torque map is 
expected to change as engine temperature changes. It will also change when an engine speed derate is active. 
For engine configuration map modes 1 and 2, points 1 through 6 correspond to the speed points in the torque map in the 
engine configuration message. For engine configuration map mode 3, points 1 through 5 correspond to the speed points, 
but point 6 corresponds to a speed point that is determined using Engine Gain (Kp) Of The Endspeed Governor (SPN 
545). Refer to Appendix D - PGN 65251 for a description of the modes. 
Estimated Engine Parasitic Losses – Percent Torque (SPN 2978) are not accounted for in the EC3 static friction torque 
map. If the EC3 message is supported and parasitic losses are known, the parasitic losses must be included in 
Estimated Engine Parasitic Losses - Percent Torque (SPN 2978); the parasitic losses must NOT be included in Nominal 
Friction - Percent Torque (SPN 514). 
Even though Estimated Pumping - Percent Torque (SPN 5398) is included in Nominal Friction - Percent Torque (SPN 
514), Estimated Pumping - Percent Torque is not included in the computation of the static friction torque map. For a given 
engine speed, the relationship between the static friction torque map and Nominal Friction - Percent Torque can be 
determined by subtracting Estimated Pumping - Percent Torque from Nominal Friction - Percent Torque. The static 
friction torque map cannot include the effects of Estimated Pumping - Percent Torque because of the dynamic nature of 
the pumping losses. 
The static friction torque at a given engine speed equals Nominal Friction - Percent Torque (SPN 514) minus Estimated 
Pumping - Percent Torque (SPN 5398). 
Transmission Repetition Rate: Every 5 s and on change of torque/speed points of more than 10% since last 
transmission but no faster than every 500 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 252 
PDU Specific: 231 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64743 (0x00FCE7) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Engine Friction Percent Torque At Idle, Point 1 5471 
2 1 byte Engine Friction Percent Torque At Idle, Point 2 5472 
3 1 byte Engine Friction Percent Torque At Idle, Point 3 5473 
4 1 byte Engine Friction Percent Torque At Idle, Point 4 5474 
5 1 byte Engine Friction Percent Torque At Idle, Point 5 5475 
6 1 byte Engine Friction Percent Torque At Idle, Point 6 5476 
7 1 byte Engine Friction Percent Torque At Idle, Point 7 5477 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 955 -
PGN 64744 Intake Valve Actuation Control IVAC 
Contains information about the intake valve actuation system control. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 500 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 252 
PDU Specific: 232 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64744 (0x00FCE8) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits Intake Valve Actuation System Oil Pressure 1 Solenoid Control 5499 
1.3 2 bits Intake Valve Actuation System Oil Pressure 2 Solenoid Control 5500 
PGN 64745 Armrest Switch Matrix Commands ARMSWIMC 
Operator commands sent via the Armrest Switch Matrices. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 100 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 252 
PDU Specific: 233 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64745 (0x00FCE9) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits Armrest 1 Switch 1 1503 
1.3 2 bits Armrest 1 Switch 2 5492 
1.5 2 bits Armrest 2 Switch 1 5493 
1.7 2 bits Armrest 2 Switch 2 5494 
PGN 64746 Vehicle Electrical Power #4 VEP4 
Hybrid system voltage information. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 252 
PDU Specific: 234 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64746 (0x00FCEA) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Hybrid Battery Pack Remaining Charge 5464 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 956 -
PGN 64747 Aftertreatment 2 NOx Adsorber Information AFT2NAI 
This message contains NOx adsorber information for aftertreatment system 2 (or bank 2). 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 252 
PDU Specific: 235 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64747 (0x00FCEB) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits Aftertreatment 2 NOx Adsorber deNOx Regeneration Status 5460 
1.3 2 bits Aftertreatment 2 NOx Adsorber deSOx Regeneration Status 5462 
PGN 64748 Aftertreatment 1 NOx Adsorber Information AFT1NAI 
This message contains NOx adsorber information for aftertreatment system 1 (or bank 1). 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 252 
PDU Specific: 236 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64748 (0x00FCEC) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits Aftertreatment 1 NOx Adsorber deNOx Regeneration Status 5459 
1.3 2 bits Aftertreatment 1 NOx Adsorber deSOx Regeneration Status 5461 
PGN 64749 Aftertreatment 2 Warm Up Diesel Oxidation Catalyst Information AT2WUDOC 
This PGN contains information for the warm up oxidation catalytic converter in exhaust bank 2. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 500 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 252 
PDU Specific: 237 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64749 (0x00FCED) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Aftertreatment 2 Warm Up Diesel Oxidation Catalyst Intake 
Temperature 
5315
3-4 2 bytes Aftertreatment 2 Warm Up Diesel Oxidation Catalyst Outlet 
Temperature 
5316
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 957 -
PGN 64750 Land Leveling System Reference Elevation Data LLRE 
This PGN will be used to communicate the reference elvation information for the land leveling system. It will 
communicate the left and right blade offset data and left and right elevation deviation data. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 200 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 252 
PDU Specific: 238 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 5 
Parameter Group Number: 64750 (0x00FCEE) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Blade Elevation Deviation - Left 5410 
3-4 2 bytes Blade Elevation Deviation - Right 5411 
5-6 2 bytes Blade Reference Elevation Offset - Left 5412 
7-8 2 bytes Blade Reference Elevation Offset - Right 5413 
(R) PGN 64751 Engine Fluid Level/Pressure 11 EFL/P11 
Engine related parameters. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 500 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 252 
PDU Specific: 239 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 5 
Parameter Group Number: 64751 (0x00FCEF) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Engine Exhaust Gas Recirculation 1 Intake Absolute Pressure 5430 
3-4 2 bytes Engine Exhaust Gas Recirculation 1 Outlet Absolute Pressure 
(High Resolution) 
5431
PGN 64752 Engine Fuel/lube systems 2 EFS2 
Contains information on the engine fuel and lube system 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 500 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 252 
PDU Specific: 240 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64752 (0x00FCF0) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Engine Fuel Filter (Suction Side) Intake Absolute Pressure 5417 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 958 -
(R) PGN 64753 Engine Turbocharger Wastegate Actuator and Exhaust Back Pressure Regulator Information
ETWAI
This PGN will be used to transmit the Engine Turbocharger Wastegate and Exhaust Back Pressure Regulator 
Information.
Transmission Repetition Rate: 100 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 252 
PDU Specific: 241 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64753 (0x00FCF1) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 5 bits Engine Turbocharger Wastegate Actuator 2 Preliminary FMI 5384 
1.6 3 bits Engine Turbocharger Wastegate Actuator 2 Temperature 
Status
5385
2.1 4 bits Engine Turbocharger Wastegate Actuator 1 Operation Status 5451 
2.5 4 bits Engine Turbocharger Wastegate Actuator 2 Operation Status 5452 
3 1 byte Engine Exhaust Back Pressure Regulator Position 5625 
4.1 5 bits Engine Exhaust Back Pressure Regulator Preliminary FMI 5626 
4.6 3 bits Engine Exhaust Back Pressure Regulator Temperature Status 5627 
5.1 4 bits Engine Exhaust Back Pressure Regulator Control Operation 
Status
5628
PGN 64754 Engine Fuel/Throttle Valve Information EFTVI 
This PGN will be used to transmit the Feedback information from the Engine Throttle and Fuel Actuator. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 100 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 252 
PDU Specific: 242 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64754 (0x00FCF2) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Engine Desired Throttle Valve 1 Position 5374 
2.1 5 bits Engine Throttle Valve 1 Preliminary FMI 5375 
2.6 3 bits Engine Throttle Valve 1 Temperature Status 5376 
3 1 byte Engine Desired Throttle Valve 2 Position 5377 
4.1 5 bits Engine Throttle Valve 2 Preliminary FMI 5378 
4.6 3 bits Engine Throttle Valve 2 Temperature status 5379 
5.1 5 bits Engine Fuel Valve 1 Preliminary FMI 5380 
5.6 3 bits Engine Fuel Valve 1 Temperature Status 5381 
6.1 5 bits Engine Fuel Valve 2 Preliminary FMI 5382 
6.6 3 bits Engine Fuel Valve 2 Temperature Status 5383 
7.1 4 bits Engine Throttle Valve 1 Operation Status 5445 
7.5 4 bits Engine Throttle Valve 2 Operation Status 5446 
8.1 4 bits Engine Fuel Valve 1 Operation Status 5447 
8.5 4 bits Engine Fuel Valve 2 Operation Status 5448 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 959 -
PGN 64755 Engine Turbocharger Compressor Bypass Information ETCBI 
This PGN will contain the Engine Turbocharger Compressor Bypass information 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 100 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 252 
PDU Specific: 243 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64755 (0x00FCF3) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Engine Turbocharger Compressor Bypass Actuator 2 Position 5388 
2 1 byte Engine Desired Turbocharger Compressor Bypass Actuator 2 
Position
5389
3.1 5 bits Engine Turbocharger compressor Bypass Actuator 2 
Preliminary FMI 
5390
3.6 3 bits Engine Turbocharger Compressor Bypass Actuator 2 
Temperature Status 
5391
4.1 4 bits Engine Turbocharger Compressor Bypass Actuator 1 Operation 
Status
5449
4.5 4 bits Engine Turbocharger Compressor Bypass Actuator 2 Operation 
Status
5450
PGN 64756 Charge Air Cooler 2 CAC2 
Engine bank 2 Charge Air Cooler parameters 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 sec 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 252 
PDU Specific: 244 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64756 (0x00FCF4) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Engine Charge Air Cooler 2 Intake Temperature 5289 
3-4 2 bytes Engine Charge Air Cooler 2 Outlet Temperature 5290 
5-6 2 bytes Engine Charge Air Cooler 2 Ambient Air Temperature 5291 
7 1 byte Engine Charge Air Cooler 2 Efficiency 5292 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 960 -
PGN 64757 Charge Air Cooler 2 Precooler CAC2P 
Engine bank 2 CAC precooler parameters 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 sec 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 252 
PDU Specific: 245 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64757 (0x00FCF5) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Engine Charge Air Cooler 2 Precooler Intake Temperature 5286 
3-4 2 bytes Engine Charge Air Cooler 2 Precooler Outlet Temperature 5287 
5 1 byte Engine Charge Air Cooler 2 Precooler Efficiency 5288 
PGN 64758 Charge Air Cooler 1 CAC1 
Engine bank 1 Charge Air Cooler parameters 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 sec 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 252 
PDU Specific: 246 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64758 (0x00FCF6) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Engine Charge Air Cooler 1 Intake Temperature 5283 
3-4 2 bytes Engine Charge Air Cooler 1 Ambient Air Temperature 5284 
5 1 byte Engine Charge Air Cooler 1 Efficiency 5285 
PGN 64759 Charge Air Cooler 1 Precooler CAC1P 
Engine bank 1 CAC precooler parameters 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 sec 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 252 
PDU Specific: 247 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64759 (0x00FCF7) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Engine Charge Air Cooler 1 Precooler Intake Temperature 5280 
3-4 2 bytes Engine Charge Air Cooler 1 Precooler Outlet Temperature 5281 
5 1 byte Engine Charge Air Cooler 1 Precooler Efficiency 5282 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 961 -
PGN 64760 Diesel Particulate Filter 2 Soot 2 DPF2S2 
Additional diesel particulate filter soot parameters for diesel particulate filter 2. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 sec 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 252 
PDU Specific: 248 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64760 (0x00FCF8) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Diesel Particulate Filter 2 Soot Signal Standard Deviation 5269 
3-4 2 bytes Diesel Particulate Filter 2 Soot Signal Maximum 5270 
5-6 2 bytes Diesel Particulate Filter 2 Soot Signal Minimum 5271 
PGN 64761 Diesel Particulate Filter 1 Soot 2 DPF1S2 
Additional diesel particulate filter soot parameters for diesel particulate filter 1. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 sec 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 252 
PDU Specific: 249 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64761 (0x00FCF9) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Diesel Particulate Filter 1 Soot Signal Standard Deviation 5266 
3-4 2 bytes Diesel Particulate Filter 1 Soot Signal Maximum 5267 
5-6 2 bytes Diesel Particulate Filter 1 Soot Signal Minimum 5268 
PGN 64762 Electronic Engine Controller 11 EEC11 
Engine related parameters 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 252 
PDU Specific: 250 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 7 
Parameter Group Number: 64762 (0x00FCFA) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Engine Exhaust Gas Recirculation 2 (EGR2) Valve Control 5264 
3-4 2 bytes Engine Exhaust Gas Recirculation 2 (EGR2) Valve 2 Control 5265 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 962 -
PGN 64763 Engine Manifold Actuator Position EMAP 
Engine manifold actuator position parameters 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 252 
PDU Specific: 251 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 5 
Parameter Group Number: 64763 (0x00FCFB) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Engine Exhaust Manifold Bank 1 Flow Balance Valve Actuator 
Position
5277
3-4 2 bytes Engine Exhaust Manifold Bank 2 Flow Balance Valve Actuator 
Position
5279
PGN 64764 Engine Manifold Actuator Control EMAC 
Engine manifold actuator control parameters. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 252 
PDU Specific: 252 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 7 
Parameter Group Number: 64764 (0x00FCFC) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Engine Exhaust Manifold Bank 1 Flow Balance Valve Actuator 
Control
5276
3-4 2 bytes Engine Exhaust Manifold Bank 2 Flow Balance Valve Actuator 
Control
5278
PGN 64765 Electronic Engine Controller 9 EEC9 
Engine related parameters 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 100 msec 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 252 
PDU Specific: 253 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 4 
Parameter Group Number: 64765 (0x00FCFD) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Engine Exhaust Gas Recirculation 2 Valve Position 5262 
3-4 2 bytes Engine Exhaust Gas Recirculation 2 Valve 2 Position 5263 
5-6 2 bytes Commanded Engine Fuel Rail Pressure 5313 
7-8 2 bytes Commanded Engine Fuel Injection Control Pressure 5314 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 963 -
PGN 64766 Electronic Engine Controller 10 EEC10 
Engine related parameters 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 252 
PDU Specific: 254 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 7 
Parameter Group Number: 64766 (0x00FCFE) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Engine Exhaust Gas Recirculation 2 (EGR2) Cooler Intake 
Temperature 
5258
3-4 2 bytes Engine Exhaust Gas Recirculation 2 (EGR2) Cooler Intake 
Gas Absolute Pressure 
5259
5 1 byte Engine Exhaust Gas Recirculation 2 (EGR2) Cooler Efficiency 5260 
6 1 byte EGR 2 Cooler Bypass Actuator Position 5261 
PGN 64767 Engine Temperature 5 ET5 
Engine related parameters 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 sec 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 252 
PDU Specific: 255 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64767 (0x00FCFF) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Engine Exhaust Gas Recirculation 2 Temperature 5255 
3-4 2 bytes Engine Exhaust Gas Recirculation 2 Mixer Intake Temperature 5256 
(R) PGN 64768 Engine Fluid Level/Pressure 10 EFL/P10 
Engine related parameters 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 500 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 00 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 5 
Parameter Group Number: 64768 (0x00FD00) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Engine Exhaust Gas Recirculation 2 Differential Pressure 5252 
3 1 byte Engine Exhaust Gas Recirculation 2 Intake Pressure 5253 
4-5 2 bytes Engine Exhaust Gas Recirculation 2 Outlet Absolute Pressure 5254 
6-7 2 bytes Engine Exhaust Gas Recirculation 2 Intake Absolute Pressure 5429 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 964 -
PGN 64769 Low Voltage Disconnect Status LVDS 
Status of the Low-Voltage Disconnect (LVD) device. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 500 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 01 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64769 (0x00FD01) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits Low Voltage Disconnect Manual Disconnect State 5141 
1.3 2 bits Low Voltage Disconnect Manual Connect State 5142 
1.5 4 bits Low Voltage Disconnect Current Operating Mode 5143 
2.1 4 bits Low Voltage Disconnect Output #3 State 5144 
2.5 4 bits Low Voltage Disconnect Output #2 State 5145 
3.1 4 bits Low Voltage Disconnect Output #1 State 5146 
3.5 4 bits Low Voltage Disconnect Vout Output State 5147 
4 1 byte Low Voltage Disconnect Temperature 5148 
PGN 64772 Direct Lamp Control Data 2 DLCD2 
This message will be transmitted by the controller that is illuminating the lamps. 
It is not required to be used with PGN 64774. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 04 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64772 (0x00FD04) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits Vehicle Battery Voltage Low Lamp Data 5104 
1.3 2 bits Vehicle Fuel Level Low Lamp Data 5105 
1.5 2 bits Vehicle Air Pressure Low Lamp Data 5106 
1.7 2 bits Vehicle HVAC Recirculation Lamp Data 5107 
2.1 2 bits Vehicle Battery Charging Lamp Data 5108 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 965 -
PGN 64773 Direct Lamp Control Data 1 DLCD1 
This message will be transmitted by the controller that is illuminating the lamps. 
It is not required to be used with PGN 64775. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 05 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64773 (0x00FD05) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits Engine Protect Lamp Data 5093 
1.3 2 bits Engine Amber Warning Lamp Data 5094 
1.5 2 bits Engine Red Stop Lamp Data 5095 
1.7 2 bits OBD Malfunction Indicator Lamp Data 5096 
2.1 2 bits Engine Brake Active Lamp Data 5097 
2.3 2 bits Compression Brake Enable Switch Indicator Lamp Data 5098 
2.5 2 bits Engine Oil Pressure Low Lamp Data 5099 
2.7 2 bits Engine Coolant Temperature High Lamp Data 5100 
3.1 2 bits Engine Coolant Level Low Lamp Data 5101 
3.3 2 bits Engine Idle Management Active Lamp Data 5102 
3.5 2 bits Engine Air Filter Restriction Lamp Data 5103 
3.7 2 bits Engine Fuel Filter Restricted Lamp Data 5470 
8.7 2 bits Engine Wait To Start Lamp Data 5416 
PGN 64774 Direct Lamp Control Command 2 DLCC2 
Message that directly controls the driver indicator lamps. See also PGN 64775 for additional lamps and PGN 64772 for 
the feedback information about these lamps. 
Note: Since this message is direct lamp control, it is required that only one device have direct control of any individual 
lamp. It is understood that there may be applications in which not all lamps will be directly controlled by a single ECU. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: Every 1 s and on change of state but no faster than every 100 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 06 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64774 (0x00FD06) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits Vehicle Battery Voltage Low Lamp Command 5087 
1.3 2 bits Vehicle Fuel Level Low Lamp Command 5088 
1.5 2 bits Vehicle Air Pressure Low Lamp Command 5089 
1.7 2 bits Vehicle HVAC Recirculation Lamp Command 5090 
2.1 2 bits Vehicle Battery Charging Lamp Command 5091 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 966 -
PGN 64775 Direct Lamp Control Command 1 DLCC1 
Message that directly controls the driver indicator lamps. See also PGN 64774 for additional lamps and PGN 64773 for 
the feedback information about these lamps. 
Note: Since this message is direct lamp control, it is required that only one device have direct control of any individual 
lamp. It is understood that there may be applications in which not all lamps will be directly controlled by a single ECU. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: Every 1 s and on change of state but no faster than every 100 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 07 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64775 (0x00FD07) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits Engine Protect Lamp Command 5077 
1.3 2 bits Engine Amber Warning Lamp Command 5078 
1.5 2 bits Engine Red Stop Lamp Command 5079 
1.7 2 bits OBD Malfunction Indicator Lamp Command 5080 
2.1 2 bits Engine Brake Active Lamp Command 5081 
2.3 2 bits Compression Brake Enable Switch Indicator Lamp Command 3987 
2.5 2 bits Engine Oil Pressure Low Lamp Command 5082 
2.7 2 bits Engine Coolant Temperature High Lamp Command 5083 
3.1 2 bits Engine Coolant Level Low Lamp Command 5084 
3.3 2 bits Engine Idle Management Active Lamp Command 5085 
3.5 2 bits Engine Air Filter Restriction Lamp Command 5086 
3.7 2 bits Engine Fuel Filter Restricted Lamp Command 5469 
PGN 64776 Engine oil message EOM 
Engine oil related parameters 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 30 seconds 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 08 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 7 
Parameter Group Number: 64776 (0x00FD08) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Engine Oil Viscosity 5055 
3-4 2 bytes Engine Oil Density 5056 
5-6 2 bytes Engine Oil Relative Dielectricity (high resolution) 5468 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 967 -
PGN 64777 High Resolution Fuel Consumption (Liquid) HRLFC 
Engine fuel consumption accumulators. See PGN 65257 for alternate resolution. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 09 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64777 (0x00FD09) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-4 4 bytes High Resolution Engine Trip Fuel 5053 
5-8 4 bytes High Resolution Engine Total Fuel Used 5054 
PGN 64778 Aftertreatment 2 Outlet Gas NOx Sensor correction data 2 AT2OGC2 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 10 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 3 
Parameter Group Number: 64778 (0x00FD0A) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Aftertreatment 2 Outlet Gas NOx Sensor Correction of pressure 
Lambda
5048
2 1 byte Aftertreatment 2 Outlet Gas NOx Sensor Correction of pressure 
Nox
5049
3 1 byte Aftertreatment 2 Outlet Gas NOx Sensor NO2 Correction 5050 
4 1 byte Aftertreatment 2 Outlet Gas NOx Sensor NH3 Correction 5051 
PGN 64779 Aftertreatment 2 Outlet Gas NOx Sensor correction data AT2OGC1 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On start-up, and every second until the dewpoint signal state = 1 (SPN 3240) has 
been received by the transmitter 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 11 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 3 
Parameter Group Number: 64779 (0x00FD0B) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Aftertreatment 2 Outlet Gas NOx Sensor Heater Ratio 5045 
3-4 2 bytes Aftertreatment 2 Outlet Gas NOx Sensor New part deviation 
NOx Gain 
5046
5 1 byte Aftertreatment 2 Outlet Gas NOx Sensor New part deviation 
NOx Offset 
5047
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 968 -
PGN 64780 Aftertreatment 2 Intake Gas NOx Sensor correction data 2 AT2IGC2 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 12 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 3 
Parameter Group Number: 64780 (0x00FD0C) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Aftertreatment 2 Intake Gas NOx Sensor Correction of pressure 
Lambda
5041
2 1 byte Aftertreatment 2 Intake Gas NOx Sensor Correction of pressure 
Nox
5042
3 1 byte Aftertreatment 2 Intake Gas NOx Sensor NO2 Correction 5043 
4 1 byte Aftertreatment 2 Intake Gas NOx Sensor NH3 Correction 5044 
PGN 64781 Aftertreatment 2 Intake Gas NOx Sensor correction data AT2IGC1 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On start-up, and every second until the dewpoint signal state = 1 (SPN 3239) has 
been received by the transmitter 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 13 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 3 
Parameter Group Number: 64781 (0x00FD0D) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Aftertreatment 2 Intake Gas NOx Sensor Heater Ratio 5038 
3-4 2 bytes Aftertreatment 2 Intake Gas NOx Sensor New part deviation 
NOx Gain 
5039
5 1 byte Aftertreatment 2 Intake Gas NOx Sensor New part deviation 
NOx Offset 
5040
PGN 64782 Aftertreatment 1 Outlet Gas NOx Sensor correction data 2 AT1OGC2 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 14 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 3 
Parameter Group Number: 64782 (0x00FD0E) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Aftertreatment 1 Outlet Gas NOx Sensor Correction of Pressure 
Lambda
5034
2 1 byte Aftertreatment 1 Outlet Gas NOx Sensor Correction of Pressure 
NOx
5035
3 1 byte Aftertreatment 1 Outlet Gas NOx Sensor NO2 Correction 5036 
4 1 byte Aftertreatment 1 Outlet Gas NOx Sensor NH3 Correction 5037 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 969 -
PGN 64783 Aftertreatment 1 Outlet Gas NOx Sensor correction data AT1OGC1 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On start-up, and every second until the dewpoint signal state = 1 (SPN 3238) has 
been received by the transmitter 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 15 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 3 
Parameter Group Number: 64783 (0x00FD0F) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Outlet Gas NOx Sensor Heater Ratio 5031 
3-4 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Outlet Gas NOx Sensor New Part Deviation 
NOx Gain 
5032
5 1 byte Aftertreatment 1 Outlet Gas NOx Sensor New Part Deviation 
NOx Offset 
5033
PGN 64784 Aftertreatment 1 Intake Gas NOx Sensor correction data 2 AT1IGC2 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 16 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 3 
Parameter Group Number: 64784 (0x00FD10) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Aftertreatment 1 Intake Gas NOx Sensor Correction of 
Pressure Lambda 
5027
2 1 byte Aftertreatment 1 Intake Gas NOx Sensor Correction of 
Pressure NOx 
5028
3 1 byte Aftertreatment 1 Intake Gas NOx Sensor NO2 Correction 5029 
4 1 byte Aftertreatment 1 Intake Gas NOx Sensor NH3 Correction 5030 
PGN 64785 Aftertreatment 1 Intake Gas NOx Sensor correction data AT1IGC1 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On start-up, and every second until the dewpoint signal state = 1 (SPN 3237) has 
been received by the transmitter 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 17 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 3 
Parameter Group Number: 64785 (0x00FD11) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Intake Gas NOx Sensor Heater Ratio 5024 
3-4 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Intake Gas NOx Sensor New part deviation 
NOx Gain 
5025
5 1 byte Aftertreatment 1 Intake Gas NOx Sensor New part deviation 
NOx Offset 
5026
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 970 -
PGN 64786 Magnet Status Information 1 MSI1 
This message carries data related to the status of the magnetic material handling system, possibly including the generator 
that provides power to the magnet. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 500 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 18 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64786 (0x00FD12) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits Generator Overheat Status 5000 
1.3 2 bits Genset System Output Voltage Range Status 5001 
1.5 2 bits Grapple/Magnet Selection Switch 5003 
1.7 2 bits Genset Softstart Active Status 5004 
2.1 5 bits Reverse Current Range Setting 5002 
3.1 2 bits Genset Enable Active Status 5005 
3.3 2 bits Voltage Monitor Active Status 5006 
3.5 2 bits Generator Duty Cycle Exceeded Status 5007 
PGN 64787 Magnet System Configuration Information MSCI 
This message carries data related to the configuration of the magnetic material handling system, possibly including the 
generator that provides power to the magnet. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 19 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64787 (0x00FD13) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Magnet Boost Time 4998 
2-3 2 bytes Magnet Rated Power 4999 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 971 -
PGN 64788 Battery Charger 2 BCH2 
Parameters for the battery charger connected to the auxiliary battery. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 sec 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 20 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64788 (0x00FD14) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 4 bits Battery Charger 2 State 4994 
1.5 2 bits Battery Charger 2 Power Line State 4995 
2-3 2 bytes Battery Charger 2 Output Voltage 4996 
4-5 2 bytes Battery Charger 2 Output Current 4997 
PGN 64789 Battery Charger 1 BCH1 
Parameters for the battery charger connected to the main battery. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 sec 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 21 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64789 (0x00FD15) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 4 bits Battery Charger 1 State 4990 
1.5 2 bits Battery Charger 1 Power Line State 4991 
2-3 2 bytes Battery Charger 1 Output Voltage 4992 
4-5 2 bytes Battery Charger 1 Output Current 4993 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 972 -
PGN 64790 Occupant Classification System Information OCSI 
Message containing status of Occupant Classification System for driver, passenger and rear seating positions. The PGN 
becomes updated every time a Beltlock Status changes in the Beltlock and Airbag Deactivation PGN. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: Transmitted every 5 sec and on change of PGN 64791 but no faster than every 250 
msec
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 22 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 5 
Parameter Group Number: 64790 (0x00FD16) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 3 bits Driver Occupant Classification System Status 4963 
1.4 3 bits Passenger Occupant Classification System Status 4964 
2.1 2 bits Occupant Classification System 3 Status 4965 
2.3 2 bits Occupant Classification System 4 Status 4966 
2.5 2 bits Occupant Classification System 5 Status 4967 
2.7 2 bits Occupant Classification System 6 Status 4968 
3.1 2 bits Occupant Classification System 7 Status 4969 
3.3 2 bits Occupant Classification System 8 Status 4970 
3.5 2 bits Occupant Classification System 9 Status 4971 
3.7 2 bits Occupant Classification System 10 Status 4972 
PGN 64791 Beltlock and Airbag Deactivation Switch Information BDS 
Message containing Beltlock States and the Passener Airbag Deactivation Switch State. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 250 msec 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 23 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 5 
Parameter Group Number: 64791 (0x00FD17) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits Driver Beltlock Status 4952 
1.3 2 bits Passenger Beltlock Status 4953 
1.5 2 bits Beltlock 3 Status 4954 
1.7 2 bits Beltlock 4 Status 4955 
2.1 2 bits Beltlock 5 Status 4956 
2.3 2 bits Beltlock 6 Status 4957 
2.5 2 bits Beltlock 7 Status 4958 
2.7 2 bits Beltlock 8 Status 4959 
3.1 2 bits Beltlock 9 Status 4960 
3.3 2 bits Beltlock 10 Status 4961 
3.5 2 bits Passenger Airbag Deactivation Switch Status 4962 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 973 -
PGN 64792 Collision Sensor Information CSI 
Message containing type and serial number for every sensor of the restraint-system. The Collision Sensor Type is 
required for all possible sensors, but only the serial numbers of sensors with a type that is different from "unavailable" are 
included in the message. The serial numbers are delimited by an ASCII "*". Since there can be different sensor 
configurations, depending on the vehicle, the message has a variable length. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: Variable 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 24 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 7 
Parameter Group Number: 64792 (0x00FD18) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 4 bits Frontal Collision Sensor 1 - Type 4918 
1.5 4 bits Frontal Collision Sensor 2 - Type 4919 
2.1 4 bits Frontal Collision Sensor 3 - Type 4920 
2.5 4 bits Frontal Collision Sensor 4 - Type 4921 
3.1 4 bits Side Collision Sensor Front Left - Type 4922 
3.5 4 bits Side Collision Sensor Mid Front Left - Type 4923 
4.1 4 bits Side Collision Sensor Mid Rear Left - Type 4924 
4.5 4 bits Side Collision Sensor Rear Left - Type 4925 
5.1 4 bits Side Collision Sensor Front Right - Type 4926 
5.5 4 bits Side Collision Sensor Mid Front Right - Type 4927 
6.1 4 bits Side Collision Sensor Mid Rear Right - Type 4928 
6.5 4 bits Side Collision Sensor Rear Right - Type 4929 
7.1 4 bits Rear Collision Sensor 1 - Type 4930 
7.5 4 bits Rear Collision Sensor 2 - Type 4931 
8.1 4 bits Rear Collision Sensor 3 - Type 4932 
8.5 4 bits Rear Collision Sensor 4 - Type 4933 
9.1 4 bits Rollover Sensor - Type 4934 
a (starts at byte 
10)
Variable - up to 
32 bytes followed 
by an "*" 
delimiter
Frontal Collision Sensor 1 - Serial Number 4935 
b Variable - up to 
32 bytes followed 
by an "*" 
delimiter
Frontal Collision Sensor 2 - Serial Number 4936 
c Variable - up to 
32 bytes followed 
by an "*" 
delimiter
Frontal Collision Sensor 3 - Serial Number 4937 
d Variable - up to 
32 bytes followed 
by an "*" 
delimiter
Frontal Collision Sensor 4 - Serial Number 4938 
e Variable - up to 
32 bytes followed 
by an "*" 
delimiter
Side Collision Sensor Front Left - Serial Number 4939 
f Variable - up to 
32 bytes followed 
by an "*" 
delimiter
Side Collision Sensor Mid Front Left - Serial Number 4940 
g Variable - up to 
32 bytes followed 
by an "*" 
delimiter
Side Collision Sensor Mid Rear Left - Serial Number 4941 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 974 -
h Variable - up to 
32 bytes followed 
by an "*" 
delimiter
Side Collision Sensor Rear Left - Serial Number 4942 
i Variable - up to 
32 bytes followed 
by an "*" 
delimiter
Side Collision Sensor Front Right - Serial Number 4943 
j Variable - up to 
32 bytes followed 
by an "*" 
delimiter
Side Collision Sensor Mid Front Right - Serial Number 4944 
k Variable - up to 
32 bytes followed 
by an "*" 
delimiter
Side Collision Sensor Mid Rear Right - Serial Number 4945 
l Variable - up to 
32 bytes followed 
by an "*" 
delimiter
Side Collision Sensor Rear Right - Serial Number 4946 
m Variable - up to 
32 bytes followed 
by an "*" 
delimiter
Rear Collision Sensor 1 - Serial Number 4947 
n Variable - up to 
32 bytes followed 
by an "*" 
delimiter
Rear Collision Sensor 2 - Serial Number 4948 
o Variable - up to 
32 bytes followed 
by an "*" 
delimiter
Rear Collision Sensor 3 - Serial Number 4949 
p Variable - up to 
32 bytes followed 
by an "*" 
delimiter
Rear Collision Sensor 4 - Serial Number 4950 
q Variable - up to 
32 bytes followed 
by an "*" 
delimiter
Rollover Sensor - Serial Number 4951 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 975 -
PGN 64793 Ignitor Loop Information ILI 
Message containing resistance values for every equipped ignitor loop of the restraint-system. (Maximum of 100 Ignitor 
Loops.)
.
.
Byte 21-22 Special Ignitor Loop [1], if installed 
Byte 23-24 Special Ignitor Loop [2], if installed 
.
.
Up to Special Ignitor Loop [90], if installed 
This entry can cover 100 ignition loops in total, where the last 90 are special ignitor loop SPNs. The SPN-names are 
numbered from 1 to 90.
Since there can be different ignitor loop configurations, depending on the vehicle, the message has a variable length. The 
first 10 standard ignitior loop parameters with exact names (SPN 4818 up to SPN 4827) are always listed in this 
message. The special ignitor loop parameters are listed only if equipped. 
(A list with the positions of all equipped special ignitor loops is required for proper diagnostics in garage, in order to find
the position of defective devices. This list has to be provided to service by the restraint system manufacturer.) 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: Variable 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 25 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 7 
Parameter Group Number: 64793 (0x00FD19) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
001-002 2 bytes Driver Airbag Ignitor Loop 1st Stage - Resistance 4818 
003-004 2 bytes Passenger Airbag Ignitor Loop 1st Stage - Resistance 4819 
005-006 2 bytes Driver Airbag Ignitor Loop 2nd Stage - Resistance 4820 
007-008 2 bytes Passenger Airbag Ignitor Loop 2nd Stage - Resistance 4821 
009-010 2 bytes Driver Belt Tensioner Ignitior Loop - Resistance 4822 
011-012 2 bytes Passenger Belt Tensioner Ignitor Loop - Resistance 4823 
013-014 2 bytes Side Bag Ignitor Loop 1 - Left - Resistance 4824 
015-016 2 bytes Side Bag Ignitor Loop 2 - Left - Resistance 4825 
017-018 2 bytes Side Bag Ignitor Loop 1 - Right - Resistance 4826 
019-020 2 bytes Side Bag Ignitor Loop 2 - Right - Resistance 4827 
021-022 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 1 - Resistance 4828 
023-024 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 2 - Resistance 4829 
025-026 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 3 - Resistance 4830 
027-028 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 4 - Resistance 4831 
029-030 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 5 - Resistance 4832 
031-032 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 6 - Resistance 4833 
033-034 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 7 - Resistance 4834 
035-036 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 8 - Resistance 4835 
037-038 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 9 - Resistance 4836 
039-040 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 10 - Resistance 4837 
041-042 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 11 - Resistance 4838 
043-044 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 12 - Resistance 4839 
045-046 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 13 - Resistance 4840 
047-048 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 14 - Resistance 4841 
049-050 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 15 - Resistance 4842 
051-052 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 16 - Resistance 4843 
053-054 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 17 - Resistance 4844 
055-056 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 18 - Resistance 4845 
057-058 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 19 - Resistance 4846 
059-060 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 20 - Resistance 4847 
061-062 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 21 - Resistance 4848 
063-064 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 22 - Resistance 4849 
065-066 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 23 - Resistance 4850 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 976 -
067-068 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 24 - Resistance 4851 
069-070 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 25 - Resistance 4852 
071-072 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 26 - Resistance 4853 
073-074 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 27 - Resistance 4854 
075-076 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 28 - Resistance 4855 
077-078 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 29 - Resistance 4856 
079-080 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 30 - Resistance 4857 
081-082 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 31 - Resistance 4858 
083-084 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 32 - Resistance 4859 
085-086 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 33 - Resistance 4860 
087-088 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 34 - Resistance 4861 
089-090 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 35 - Resistance 4862 
091-092 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 36 - Resistance 4863 
093-094 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 37 - Resistance 4864 
095-096 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 38 - Resistance 4865 
097-098 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 39 - Resistance 4866 
099-100 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 40 - Resistance 4867 
101-102 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 41 - Resistance 4868 
103-104 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 42 - Resistance 4869 
105-106 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 43 - Resistance 4870 
107-108 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 44 - Resistance 4871 
109-110 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 45 - Resistance 4872 
111-112 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 46 - Resistance 4873 
113-114 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 47 - Resistance 4874 
115-116 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 48 - Resistance 4875 
117-118 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 49 - Resistance 4876 
119-120 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 50 - Resistance 4877 
121-122 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 51 - Resistance 4878 
123-124 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 52 - Resistance 4879 
125-126 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 53 - Resistance 4880 
127-128 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 54 - Resistance 4881 
129-130 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 55 - Resistance 4882 
131-132 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 56 - Resistance 4883 
133-134 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 57 - Resistance 4884 
135-136 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 58 - Resistance 4885 
137-138 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 59 - Resistance 4886 
139-140 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 60 - Resistance 4887 
141-142 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 61 - Resistance 4888 
143-144 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 62 - Resistance 4889 
145-146 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 63 - Resistance 4890 
147-148 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 64 - Resistance 4891 
149-150 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 65 - Resistance 4892 
151-152 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 66 - Resistance 4893 
153-154 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 67 - Resistance 4894 
155-156 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 68 - Resistance 4895 
157-158 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 69 - Resistance 4896 
159-160 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 70 - Resistance 4897 
161-162 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 71 - Resistance 4898 
163-164 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 72 - Resistance 4899 
165-166 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 73 - Resistance 4900 
167-168 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 74 - Resistance 4901 
169-170 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 75 - Resistance 4902 
171-172 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 76 - Resistance 4903 
173-174 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 77 - Resistance 4904 
175-176 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 78 - Resistance 4905 
177-178 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 79 - Resistance 4906 
179-180 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 80 - Resistance 4907 
181-182 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 81 - Resistance 4908 
183-184 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 82 - Resistance 4909 
185-186 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 83 - Resistance 4910 
187-188 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 84 - Resistance 4911 
189-190 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 85 - Resistance 4912 
191-192 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 86 - Resistance 4913 
193-194 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 87 - Resistance 4914 
195-196 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 88 - Resistance 4915 
197-198 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 89 - Resistance 4916 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 977 -
199-200 2 bytes Special Ignitor Loop 90 - Resistance 4917 
PGN 64794 Aftertreatment 1 Warm Up Diesel Oxidation Catalyst Information AT1WUDOC 
This PGN contains information for the warm up oxidation catalytic converter in exhaust bank 1. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 500 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 26 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64794 (0x00FD1A) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Warm Up Diesel Oxidation Catalyst Intake 
Temperature 
4809
3-4 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Warm Up Diesel Oxidation Catalyst Outlet 
Temperature 
4810
(R) PGN 64795 Diesel Particulate Filter 2 Soot DPF2S 
Diesel particulate filter soot parameters for diesel particulate filter 2. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 sec 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 27 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64795 (0x00FD1B) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Diesel Particulate Filter 2 Soot Mass 4786 
2 1 byte Diesel Particulate Filter 2 Soot Density 4787 
3-4 2 bytes Diesel Particulate Filter 2 Mean Soot Signal 4788 
5-6 2 bytes Diesel Particulate Filter 2 Median Soot Signal 4789 
7.1 5 bits Diesel Particulate Filter 2 Soot Sensor Preliminary FMI 4790 
8 1 byte Diesel Particulate Filter 2 Soot Sensor ECU Internal 
Temperature 
5570
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 978 -
(R) PGN 64796 Diesel Particulate Filter 1 Soot DPF1S 
Diesel particulate filter soot parameters for diesel particulate filter 1. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 sec 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 28 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64796 (0x00FD1C) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Diesel Particulate Filter 1 Soot Mass 4781 
2 1 byte Diesel Particulate Filter 1 Soot Density 4782 
3-4 2 bytes Diesel Particulate Filter 1 Mean Soot Signal 4783 
5-6 2 bytes Diesel Particulate Filter 1 Median Soot Signal 4784 
7.1 5 bits Diesel Particulate Filter 1 Soot Sensor Preliminary FMI 4785 
8 1 byte Diesel Particulate Filter 1 Soot Sensor ECU Internal 
Temperature 
5569
PGN 64797 Aftertreatment Differential Temperature 2 ATDT2 
The purpose of this PGN is to group the aftertreatment differential temperature data. These values include the differential 
temperature measure between the intake and outlet of aftertreatment components. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 29 PGN Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 64948 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64797 (0x00FD1D) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Three Way Catalyst Differential Gas 
Temperature 
4779
3-4 2 bytes Aftertreatment 2 Three Way Catalyst Differential Gas 
Temperature 
4780
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 979 -
PGN 64798 Aftertreatment Differential Temperature 1 ATDT1 
The purpose of this PGN is to group the aftertreatment differential temperature data. These values include the differential 
temperature measure between the intake and outlet of aftertreatment components. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 30 PGN Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 64948 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64798 (0x00FD1E) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Gas Oxidation Catalyst Differential Gas 
Temperature 
4777
3-4 2 bytes Aftertreatment 2 Gas Oxidation Catalyst Differential Gas 
Temperature 
4778
PGN 64799 Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Oxidation Catalyst A2DOC 
The purpose of this PGN is to group the aftertreatment diesel oxidation catalyst data for bank 2. These values include the 
intake temperature, outlet temperature and differential pressure as well as the associated preliminary FMIs. The diesel 
parameters should be used with engines fueled by diesel fuel (not gaseous fuel like natural gas or propane). Separate 
parameters have been defined for gas fueled engines. 
Note: The 5 bits of SPN 4775 are positioned into the data field in the following manner. The 2 most significant bits are 
placed in bits 2-1 of byte 8 such that the most significant bit of SPN 4775 located at byte 8 bit 2, and the 3 least significant
bits are placed in bits 8-6 of byte 7 such that the least significant bit of SPN 4775 located at byte 7 bit 6. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 500 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 31 PGN Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 64948 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64799 (0x00FD1F) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Oxidation Catalyst Intake Gas 
Temperature 
4771
3-4 2 bytes Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Oxidation Catalyst Outlet Gas 
Temperature 
4772
5-6 2 bytes Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Oxidation Catalyst Differential Pressure 4773 
7.1 5 bits Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Oxidation Catalyst Intake Gas 
Temperature Preliminary FMI 
4774
7.6-8.1 5 bits Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Oxidation Catalyst Outlet Gas 
Temperature Preliminary FMI 
4775
8.3 5 bits Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Oxidation Catalyst Differential Pressure 
Preliminary FMI 
4776
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 980 -
PGN 64800 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Oxidation Catalyst A1DOC 
The purpose of this PGN is to group the aftertreatment diesel oxidation catalyst data for bank 1. These values include the 
intake temperature, outlet temperature and differential pressure as well as the associated preliminary FMIs. The diesel 
parameters should be used with engines fueled by diesel fuel (not gaseous fuel like natural gas or propane). Separate 
parameters have been defined for gas fueled engines. 
Note: The 5 bits of SPN 4769 are positioned into the data field in the following manner. The 2 most significant bits are 
placed in bits 2-1 of byte 8 such that the most significant bit of SPN 4769 located at byte 8 bit 2, and the 3 least significant
bits are placed in bits 8-6 of byte 7 such that the least significant bit of SPN 4769 located at byte 7 bit 6. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 500 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 32 PGN Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 64948 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64800 (0x00FD20) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Oxidation Catalyst Intake Gas 
Temperature 
4765
3-4 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Oxidation Catalyst Outlet Gas 
Temperature 
4766
5-6 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Oxidation Catalyst Differential Pressure 4767 
7.1 5 bits Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Oxidation Catalyst Intake Gas 
Temperature Preliminary FMI 
4768
7.6-8.1 5 bits Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Oxidation Catalyst Outlet Gas 
Temperature Preliminary FMI 
4769
8.3 5 bits Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Oxidation Catalyst Differential Pressure 
Preliminary FMI 
4770
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 981 -
PGN 64801 Aftertreatment 2 Gas Oxidation Catalyst A2GOC 
The purpose of this PGN is to group the aftertreatment gas oxidation catalyst data for bank 2. These values include the 
intake temperature, outlet temperature and differential pressure as well as the associated preliminary FMIs. The gas 
parameters should be used with engines fueled by gaseous fuel like natural gas or propane. Separate parameters have 
been defined for diesel fueled engines. 
Note: The 5 bits of SPN 4763 are positioned into the data field in the following manner. The 2 most significant bits are 
placed in bits 2-1 of byte 8 such that the most significant bit of SPN 4763 located at byte 8 bit 2, and the 3 least significant
bits are placed in bits 8-6 of byte 7 such that the least significant bit of SPN 4763 located at byte 7 bit 6. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 500 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 33 PGN Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 64948 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64801 (0x00FD21) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Aftertreatment 2 Gas Oxidation Catalyst Intake Gas 
Temperature 
4759
3-4 2 bytes Aftertreatment 2 Gas Oxidation Catalyst Outlet Gas 
Temperature 
4760
5-6 2 bytes Aftertreatment 2 Gas Oxidation Catalyst Differential Pressure 4761 
7.1 5 bits Aftertreatment 2 Gas Oxidation Catalyst Intake Gas 
Temperature Preliminary FMI 
4762
7.6-8.1 5 bits Aftertreatment 2 Gas Oxidation Catalyst Outlet Gas 
Temperature Preliminary FMI 
4763
8.3 5 bits Aftertreatment 2 Gas Oxidation Catalyst Differential Pressure 
Preliminary FMI 
4764
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 982 -
PGN 64802 Aftertreatment 1 Gas Oxidation Catalyst A1GOC 
The purpose of this PGN is to group the aftertreatment gas oxidation catalyst data for bank 1. These values include the 
intake temperature, outlet temperature and differential pressure as well as the associated preliminary FMIs. The gas 
parameters should be used with engines fueled by gaseous fuel like natural gas or propane. Separate parameters have 
been defined for diesel fueled engines. 
Note: The 5 bits of SPN 4757 are positioned into the data field in the following manner. The 2 most significant bits are 
placed in bits 2-1 of byte 8 such that the most significant bit of SPN 4757 located at byte 8 bit 2, and the 3 least significant
bits are placed in bits 8-6 of byte 7 such that the least significant bit of SPN 4757 located at byte 7 bit 6. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 500 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 34 PGN Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 64948 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64802 (0x00FD22) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Gas Oxidation Catalyst Intake Gas 
Temperature 
4753
3-4 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Gas Oxidation Catalyst Outlet Gas 
Temperature 
4754
5-6 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Gas Oxidation Catalyst Differential Pressure 4755 
7.1 5 bits Aftertreatment 1 Gas Oxidation Catalyst Intake Gas 
Temperature Preliminary FMI 
4756
7.6-8.1 5 bits Aftertreatment 1 Gas Oxidation Catalyst Outlet Gas 
Temperature Preliminary FMI 
4757
8.3 5 bits Aftertreatment 1 Gas Oxidation Catalyst Differential Pressure 
Preliminary FMI 
4758
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 983 -
PGN 64803 Extended Joystick Message 10 EJM10 
Used to transfer information about the measured status of three additional axes of a joystick and switches of the joystick 
grip or handle. The joystick axial motion information is available in the Basic Joystick Message. 
10-bit position parameters are broadcast over 2 bytes. The eight most significant bits are transmitted in the second byte, 
with the most significant bit at bit 8. The two least significant bits are transmitted in the first byte in bit positions 7 and 8, 
with the most significant of the two bits at bit 8. 
10-bit position SPN Location in PGN 
Bit 10 Byte n Bit 8 
Bit 9 Bit 7 
Bit 8 Bit 6 
Bit 7 Bit 5 
Bit 6 Bit 4 
Bit 5 Bit 3 
Bit 4 Bit 2 
Bit 3 Bit 1 
Bit 2 Byte (n-1) Bit 8 
Bit 1 Bit 7 
Note: The term Grip used here simply refers to another set of axes separate from the previously mentioned X and Y Axis. 
 This additional set of axes could in some cases be grip mounted sensors as opposed to the sensors mounted at the base 
of the handle. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: Every 100 ms and on change of state, but no faster than every 20 ms. Grandfathered 
definition for systems that implemented this message prior to July, 2010: Every 100 
ms or on change of state, but no faster than every 20 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 35 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 3 
Parameter Group Number: 64803 (0x00FD23) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits Joystick 10 Grip X-Axis Neutral Position Status 4735 
1.3 2 bits Joystick 10 Grip X-Axis Lever Left Negative Position Status 4736 
1.5 2 bits Joystick 10 Grip X-Axis Lever Right Positive Position Status 4737 
1.7-2 10 bits Joystick 10 Grip X-Axis Position 4738 
3.1 2 bits Joystick 10 Grip Y-Axis Neutral Position Status 4739 
3.3 2 bits Joystick 10 Grip Y-Axis Lever Back Negative Position Status 4740 
3.5 2 bits Joystick 10 Grip Y-Axis Lever Forward Positive Position Status 4741 
3.7-4 10 bits Joystick 10 Grip Y-Axis Position 4742 
5.1 2 bits Joystick 10 Theta-Axis Neutral Position Status 4743 
5.3 2 bits Joystick 10 Theta-Axis Counter Clockwise Negative Position 
Status
4744
5.5 2 bits Joystick 10 Theta-Axis Clockwise Positive Position Status 4745 
5.7-6 10 bits Joystick 10 Theta-Axis Position 4746 
7.3 2 bits Joystick 10 Theta-Axis Detent Position Status 4747 
7.5 2 bits Joystick 10 Grip Y-Axis Detent Position Status 4748 
7.7 2 bits Joystick 10 Grip X-Axis Detent Position Status 4749 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 984 -
PGN 64804 Basic Joystick Message 10 BJM10 
Used to transfer information about the measured status of the 1st 2 axes and up to 12 buttons of a joystick. Additional 
handle information is available in the Expanded Joystick Message. 
10-bit position parameters are broadcast over 2 bytes. The eight most significant bits are transmitted in the second byte, 
with the most significant bit at bit 8. The two least significant bits are transmitted in the first byte in bit positions 7 and 8, 
with the most significant of the two bits at bit 8. 
10-bit position SPN Location in PGN 
Bit 10 Byte n Bit 8 
Bit 9 Bit 7 
Bit 8 Bit 6 
Bit 7 Bit 5 
Bit 6 Bit 4 
Bit 5 Bit 3 
Bit 4 Bit 2 
Bit 3 Bit 1 
Bit 2 Byte (n-1) Bit 8 
Bit 1 Bit 7 
Transmission Repetition Rate: Every 100 ms and on change of state, but no faster than every 20 ms. Grandfathered 
definition for systems that implemented this message prior to July, 2010: Every 100 
ms or on change of state, but no faster than every 20 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 36 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 3 
Parameter Group Number: 64804 (0x00FD24) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits Joystick 10 X-Axis Neutral Position Status 4713 
1.3 2 bits Joystick 10 X-Axis Lever Left Negative Position Status 4714 
1.5 2 bits Joystick 10 X-Axis Lever Right Positive Position Status 4715 
1.7-2 10 bits Joystick 10 X-Axis Position 4716 
3.1 2 bits Joystick 10 Y-Axis Neutral Position Status 4717 
3.3 2 bits Joystick 10 Y-Axis Lever Back Negative Position Status 4718 
3.5 2 bits Joystick 10 Y-Axis Lever Forward Positive Position Status 4719 
3.7-4 10 bits Joystick 10 Y-Axis Position 4720 
5.5 2 bits Joystick 10 Y-Axis Detent Position Status 4721 
5.7 2 bits Joystick 10 X-Axis Detent Position Status 4722 
6.1 2 bits Joystick 10 Button 4 Pressed Status 4723 
6.3 2 bits Joystick 10 Button 3 Pressed Status 4724 
6.5 2 bits Joystick 10 Button 2 Pressed Status 4725 
6.7 2 bits Joystick 10 Button 1 Pressed Status 4726 
7.1 2 bits Joystick 10 Button 8 Pressed Status 4727 
7.3 2 bits Joystick 10 Button 7 Pressed Status 4728 
7.5 2 bits Joystick 10 Button 6 Pressed Status 4729 
7.7 2 bits Joystick 10 Button 5 Pressed Status 4730 
8.1 2 bits Joystick 10 Button 12 Pressed Status 4731 
8.3 2 bits Joystick 10 Button 11 Pressed Status 4732 
8.5 2 bits Joystick 10 Button 10 Pressed Status 4733 
8.7 2 bits Joystick 10 Button 9 Pressed Status 4734 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 985 -
PGN 64805 Extended Joystick Message 9 EJM9 
Used to transfer information about the measured status of three additional axes of a joystick and switches of the joystick 
grip or handle. The joystick axial motion information is available in the Basic Joystick Message. 
10-bit position parameters are broadcast over 2 bytes. The eight most significant bits are transmitted in the second byte, 
with the most significant bit at bit 8. The two least significant bits are transmitted in the first byte in bit positions 7 and 8, 
with the most significant of the two bits at bit 8. 
10-bit position SPN Location in PGN 
Bit 10 Byte n Bit 8 
Bit 9 Bit 7 
Bit 8 Bit 6 
Bit 7 Bit 5 
Bit 6 Bit 4 
Bit 5 Bit 3 
Bit 4 Bit 2 
Bit 3 Bit 1 
Bit 2 Byte (n-1) Bit 8 
Bit 1 Bit 7 
Note: The term Grip used here simply refers to another set of axes separate from the previously mentioned X and Y Axis. 
 This additional set of axes could in some cases be grip mounted sensors as opposed to the sensors mounted at the base 
of the handle. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: Every 100 ms and on change of state, but no faster than every 20 ms. Grandfathered 
definition for systems that implemented this message prior to July, 2010: Every 100 
ms or on change of state, but no faster than every 20 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 37 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 3 
Parameter Group Number: 64805 (0x00FD25) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits Joystick 9 Grip X-Axis Neutral Position Status 4698 
1.3 2 bits Joystick 9 Grip X-Axis Lever Left Negative Position Status 4699 
1.5 2 bits Joystick 9 Grip X-Axis Lever Right Positive Position Status 4700 
1.7-2 10 bits Joystick 9 Grip X-Axis Position 4701 
3.1 2 bits Joystick 9 Grip Y-Axis Neutral Position Status 4702 
3.3 2 bits Joystick 9 Grip Y-Axis Lever Back Negative Position Status 4703 
3.5 2 bits Joystick 9 Grip Y-Axis Lever Forward Positive Position Status 4704 
3.7-4 10 bits Joystick 9 Grip Y-Axis Position 4705 
5.1 2 bits Joystick 9 Theta-Axis Neutral Position Status 4706 
5.3 2 bits Joystick 9 Theta-Axis Counter Clockwise Negative Position 
Status
4707
5.5 2 bits Joystick 9 Theta-Axis Clockwise Positive Position Status 4708 
5.7-6 10 bits Joystick 9 Theta-Axis Position 4709 
7.3 2 bits Joystick 9 Theta-Axis Detent Position Status 4710 
7.5 2 bits Joystick 9 Grip Y-Axis Detent Position Status 4711 
7.7 2 bits Joystick 9 Grip X-Axis Detent Position Status 4712 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 986 -
PGN 64806 Basic Joystick Message 9 BJM9 
Used to transfer information about the measured status of the 1st 2 axes and up to 12 buttons of a joystick. Additional 
handle information is available in the Expanded Joystick Message. 
10-bit position parameters are broadcast over 2 bytes. The eight most significant bits are transmitted in the second byte, 
with the most significant bit at bit 8. The two least significant bits are transmitted in the first byte in bit positions 7 and 8, 
with the most significant of the two bits at bit 8. 
10-bit position SPN Location in PGN 
Bit 10 Byte n Bit 8 
Bit 9 Bit 7 
Bit 8 Bit 6 
Bit 7 Bit 5 
Bit 6 Bit 4 
Bit 5 Bit 3 
Bit 4 Bit 2 
Bit 3 Bit 1 
Bit 2 Byte (n-1) Bit 8 
Bit 1 Bit 7 
Transmission Repetition Rate: Every 100 ms and on change of state, but no faster than every 20 ms. Grandfathered 
definition for systems that implemented this message prior to July, 2010: Every 100 
ms or on change of state, but no faster than every 20 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 38 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 3 
Parameter Group Number: 64806 (0x00FD26) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits Joystick 9 X-Axis Neutral Position Status 4676 
1.3 2 bits Joystick 9 X-Axis Lever Left Negative Position Status 4677 
1.5 2 bits Joystick 9 X-Axis Lever Right Positive Position Status 4678 
1.7-2 10 bits Joystick 9 X-Axis Position 4679 
3.1 2 bits Joystick 9 Y-Axis Neutral Position Status 4680 
3.3 2 bits Joystick 9 Y-Axis Lever Back Negative Position Status 4681 
3.5 2 bits Joystick 9 Y-Axis Lever Forward Positive Position Status 4682 
3.7-4 10 bits Joystick 9 Y-Axis Position 4683 
5.5 2 bits Joystick 9 Y-Axis Detent Position Status 4684 
5.7 2 bits Joystick 9 X-Axis Detent Position Status 4685 
6.1 2 bits Joystick 9 Button 4 Pressed Status 4686 
6.3 2 bits Joystick 9 Button 3 Pressed Status 4687 
6.5 2 bits Joystick 9 Button 2 Pressed Status 4688 
6.7 2 bits Joystick 9 Button 1 Pressed Status 4689 
7.1 2 bits Joystick 9 Button 8 Pressed Status 4690 
7.3 2 bits Joystick 9 Button 7 Pressed Status 4691 
7.5 2 bits Joystick 9 Button 6 Pressed Status 4692 
7.7 2 bits Joystick 9 Button 5 Pressed Status 4693 
8.1 2 bits Joystick 9 Button 12 Pressed Status 4694 
8.3 2 bits Joystick 9 Button 11 Pressed Status 4695 
8.5 2 bits Joystick 9 Button 10 Pressed Status 4696 
8.7 2 bits Joystick 9 Button 9 Pressed Status 4697 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 987 -
PGN 64807 Extended Joystick Message 8 EJM8 
Used to transfer information about the measured status of three additional axes of a joystick and switches of the joystick 
grip or handle. The joystick axial motion information is available in the Basic Joystick Message. 
10-bit position parameters are broadcast over 2 bytes. The eight most significant bits are transmitted in the second byte, 
with the most significant bit at bit 8. The two least significant bits are transmitted in the first byte in bit positions 7 and 8, 
with the most significant of the two bits at bit 8. 
10-bit position SPN Location in PGN 
Bit 10 Byte n Bit 8 
Bit 9 Bit 7 
Bit 8 Bit 6 
Bit 7 Bit 5 
Bit 6 Bit 4 
Bit 5 Bit 3 
Bit 4 Bit 2 
Bit 3 Bit 1 
Bit 2 Byte (n-1) Bit 8 
Bit 1 Bit 7 
Note: The term Grip used here simply refers to another set of axes separate from the previously mentioned X and Y Axis. 
 This additional set of axes could in some cases be grip mounted sensors as opposed to the sensors mounted at the base 
of the handle. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: Every 100 ms and on change of state, but no faster than every 20 ms. Grandfathered 
definition for systems that implemented this message prior to July, 2010: Every 100 
ms or on change of state, but no faster than every 20 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 39 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 3 
Parameter Group Number: 64807 (0x00FD27) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits Joystick 8 Grip X-Axis Neutral Position Status 4661 
1.3 2 bits Joystick 8 Grip X-Axis Lever Left Negative Position Status 4662 
1.5 2 bits Joystick 8 Grip X-Axis Lever Right Positive Position Status 4663 
1.7-2 10 bits Joystick 8 Grip X-Axis Position 4664 
3.1 2 bits Joystick 8 Grip Y-Axis Neutral Position Status 4665 
3.3 2 bits Joystick 8 Grip Y-Axis Lever Back Negative Position Status 4666 
3.5 2 bits Joystick 8 Grip Y-Axis Lever Forward Positive Position Status 4667 
3.7-4 10 bits Joystick 8 Grip Y-Axis Position 4668 
5.1 2 bits Joystick 8 Theta-Axis Neutral Position Status 4669 
5.3 2 bits Joystick 8 Theta-Axis Counter Clockwise Negative Position 
Status
4670
5.5 2 bits Joystick 8 Theta-Axis Clockwise Positive Position Status 4671 
5.7-6 10 bits Joystick 8 Theta-Axis Position 4672 
7.3 2 bits Joystick 8 Theta-Axis Detent Position Status 4673 
7.5 2 bits Joystick 8 Grip Y-Axis Detent Position Status 4674 
7.7 2 bits Joystick 8 Grip X-Axis Detent Position Status 4675 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 988 -
PGN 64808 Basic Joystick Message 8 BJM8 
Used to transfer information about the measured status of the 1st 2 axes and up to 12 buttons of a joystick. Additional 
handle information is available in the Expanded Joystick Message. 
10-bit position parameters are broadcast over 2 bytes. The eight most significant bits are transmitted in the second byte, 
with the most significant bit at bit 8. The two least significant bits are transmitted in the first byte in bit positions 7 and 8, 
with the most significant of the two bits at bit 8. 
10-bit position SPN Location in PGN 
Bit 10 Byte n Bit 8 
Bit 9 Bit 7 
Bit 8 Bit 6 
Bit 7 Bit 5 
Bit 6 Bit 4 
Bit 5 Bit 3 
Bit 4 Bit 2 
Bit 3 Bit 1 
Bit 2 Byte (n-1) Bit 8 
Bit 1 Bit 7 
Transmission Repetition Rate: Every 100 ms and on change of state, but no faster than every 20 ms. Grandfathered 
definition for systems that implemented this message prior to July, 2010: Every 100 
ms or on change of state, but no faster than every 20 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 40 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 3 
Parameter Group Number: 64808 (0x00FD28) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits Joystick 8 X-Axis Neutral Position Status 4639 
1.3 2 bits Joystick 8 X-Axis Lever Left Negative Position Status 4640 
1.5 2 bits Joystick 8 X-Axis Lever Right Positive Position Status 4641 
1.7-2 10 bits Joystick 8 X-Axis Position 4642 
3.1 2 bits Joystick 8 Y-Axis Neutral Position Status 4643 
3.3 2 bits Joystick 8 Y-Axis Lever Back Negative Position Status 4644 
3.5 2 bits Joystick 8 Y-Axis Lever Forward Positive Position Status 4645 
3.7-4 10 bits Joystick 8 Y-Axis Position 4646 
5.5 2 bits Joystick 8 Y-Axis Detent Position Status 4647 
5.7 2 bits Joystick 8 X-Axis Detent Position Status 4648 
6.1 2 bits Joystick 8 Button 4 Pressed Status 4649 
6.3 2 bits Joystick 8 Button 3 Pressed Status 4650 
6.5 2 bits Joystick 8 Button 2 Pressed Status 4651 
6.7 2 bits Joystick 8 Button 1 Pressed Status 4652 
7.1 2 bits Joystick 8 Button 8 Pressed Status 4653 
7.3 2 bits Joystick 8 Button 7 Pressed Status 4654 
7.5 2 bits Joystick 8 Button 6 Pressed Status 4655 
7.7 2 bits Joystick 8 Button 5 Pressed Status 4656 
8.1 2 bits Joystick 8 Button 12 Pressed Status 4657 
8.3 2 bits Joystick 8 Button 11 Pressed Status 4658 
8.5 2 bits Joystick 8 Button 10 Pressed Status 4659 
8.7 2 bits Joystick 8 Button 9 Pressed Status 4660 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 989 -
PGN 64809 Extended Joystick Message 7 EJM7 
Used to transfer information about the measured status of three additional axes of a joystick and switches of the joystick 
grip or handle. The joystick axial motion information is available in the Basic Joystick Message. 
10-bit position parameters are broadcast over 2 bytes. The eight most significant bits are transmitted in the second byte, 
with the most significant bit at bit 8. The two least significant bits are transmitted in the first byte in bit positions 7 and 8, 
with the most significant of the two bits at bit 8. 
10-bit position SPN Location in PGN 
Bit 10 Byte n Bit 8 
Bit 9 Bit 7 
Bit 8 Bit 6 
Bit 7 Bit 5 
Bit 6 Bit 4 
Bit 5 Bit 3 
Bit 4 Bit 2 
Bit 3 Bit 1 
Bit 2 Byte (n-1) Bit 8 
Bit 1 Bit 7 
Note: The term Grip used here simply refers to another set of axes separate from the previously mentioned X and Y Axis. 
 This additional set of axes could in some cases be grip mounted sensors as opposed to the sensors mounted at the base 
of the handle. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: Every 100 ms and on change of state, but no faster than every 20 ms. Grandfathered 
definition for systems that implemented this message prior to July, 2010: Every 100 
ms or on change of state, but no faster than every 20 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 41 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 3 
Parameter Group Number: 64809 (0x00FD29) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits Joystick 7 Grip X-Axis Neutral Position Status 4624 
1.3 2 bits Joystick 7 Grip X-Axis Lever Left Negative Position Status 4625 
1.5 2 bits Joystick 7 Grip X-Axis Lever Right Positive Position Status 4626 
1.7-2 10 bits Joystick 7 Grip X-Axis Position 4627 
3.1 2 bits Joystick 7 Grip Y-Axis Neutral Position Status 4628 
3.3 2 bits Joystick 7 Grip Y-Axis Lever Back Negative Position Status 4629 
3.5 2 bits Joystick 7 Grip Y-Axis Lever Forward Positive Position Status 4630 
3.7-4 10 bits Joystick 7 Grip Y-Axis Position 4631 
5.1 2 bits Joystick 7 Theta-Axis Neutral Position Status 4632 
5.3 2 bits Joystick 7 Theta-Axis Counter Clockwise Negative Position 
Status
4633
5.5 2 bits Joystick 7 Theta-Axis Clockwise Positive Position Status 4634 
5.7-6 10 bits Joystick 7 Theta-Axis Position 4635 
7.3 2 bits Joystick 7 Theta-Axis Detent Position Status 4636 
7.5 2 bits Joystick 7 Grip Y-Axis Detent Position Status 4637 
7.7 2 bits Joystick 7 Grip X-Axis Detent Position Status 4638 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 990 -
PGN 64810 Basic Joystick Message 7 BJM7 
Used to transfer information about the measured status of the 1st 2 axes and up to 12 buttons of a joystick. Additional 
handle information is available in the Expanded Joystick Message. 
10-bit position parameters are broadcast over 2 bytes. The eight most significant bits are transmitted in the second byte, 
with the most significant bit at bit 8. The two least significant bits are transmitted in the first byte in bit positions 7 and 8, 
with the most significant of the two bits at bit 8. 
10-bit position SPN Location in PGN 
Bit 10 Byte n Bit 8 
Bit 9 Bit 7 
Bit 8 Bit 6 
Bit 7 Bit 5 
Bit 6 Bit 4 
Bit 5 Bit 3 
Bit 4 Bit 2 
Bit 3 Bit 1 
Bit 2 Byte (n-1) Bit 8 
Bit 1 Bit 7 
Transmission Repetition Rate: Every 100 ms and on change of state, but no faster than every 20 ms. Grandfathered 
definition for systems that implemented this message prior to July, 2010: Every 100 
ms or on change of state, but no faster than every 20 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 42 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 3 
Parameter Group Number: 64810 (0x00FD2A) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits Joystick 7 X-Axis Neutral Position Status 4602 
1.3 2 bits Joystick 7 X-Axis Lever Left Negative Position Status 4603 
1.5 2 bits Joystick 7 X-Axis Lever Right Positive Position Status 4604 
1.7-2 10 bits Joystick 7 X-Axis Position 4605 
3.1 2 bits Joystick 7 Y-Axis Neutral Position Status 4606 
3.3 2 bits Joystick 7 Y-Axis Lever Back Negative Position Status 4607 
3.5 2 bits Joystick 7 Y-Axis Lever Forward Positive Position Status 4608 
3.7-4 10 bits Joystick 7 Y-Axis Position 4609 
5.5 2 bits Joystick 7 Y-Axis Detent Position Status 4610 
5.7 2 bits Joystick 7 X-Axis Detent Position Status 4611 
6.1 2 bits Joystick 7 Button 4 Pressed Status 4612 
6.3 2 bits Joystick 7 Button 3 Pressed Status 4613 
6.5 2 bits Joystick 7 Button 2 Pressed Status 4614 
6.7 2 bits Joystick 7 Button 1 Pressed Status 4615 
7.1 2 bits Joystick 7 Button 8 Pressed Status 4616 
7.3 2 bits Joystick 7 Button 7 Pressed Status 4617 
7.5 2 bits Joystick 7 Button 6 Pressed Status 4618 
7.7 2 bits Joystick 7 Button 5 Pressed Status 4619 
8.1 2 bits Joystick 7 Button 12 Pressed Status 4620 
8.3 2 bits Joystick 7 Button 11 Pressed Status 4621 
8.5 2 bits Joystick 7 Button 10 Pressed Status 4622 
8.7 2 bits Joystick 7 Button 9 Pressed Status 4623 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 991 -
PGN 64811 Extended Joystick Message 6 EJM6 
Used to transfer information about the measured status of three additional axes of a joystick and switches of the joystick 
grip or handle. The joystick axial motion information is available in the Basic Joystick Message. 
10-bit position parameters are broadcast over 2 bytes. The eight most significant bits are transmitted in the second byte, 
with the most significant bit at bit 8. The two least significant bits are transmitted in the first byte in bit positions 7 and 8, 
with the most significant of the two bits at bit 8. 
10-bit position SPN Location in PGN 
Bit 10 Byte n Bit 8 
Bit 9 Bit 7 
Bit 8 Bit 6 
Bit 7 Bit 5 
Bit 6 Bit 4 
Bit 5 Bit 3 
Bit 4 Bit 2 
Bit 3 Bit 1 
Bit 2 Byte (n-1) Bit 8 
Bit 1 Bit 7 
Note: The term Grip used here simply refers to another set of axes separate from the previously mentioned X and Y Axis. 
 This additional set of axes could in some cases be grip mounted sensors as opposed to the sensors mounted at the base 
of the handle. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: Every 100 ms and on change of state, but no faster than every 20 ms. Grandfathered 
definition for systems that implemented this message prior to July, 2010: Every 100 
ms or on change of state, but no faster than every 20 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 43 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 3 
Parameter Group Number: 64811 (0x00FD2B) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits Joystick 6 Grip X-Axis Neutral Position Status 4587 
1.3 2 bits Joystick 6 Grip X-Axis Lever Left Negative Position Status 4588 
1.5 2 bits Joystick 6 Grip X-Axis Lever Right Positive Position Status 4589 
1.7-2 10 bits Joystick 6 Grip X-Axis Position 4590 
3.1 2 bits Joystick 6 Grip Y-Axis Neutral Position Status 4591 
3.3 2 bits Joystick 6 Grip Y-Axis Lever Back Negative Position Status 4592 
3.5 2 bits Joystick 6 Grip Y-Axis Lever Forward Positive Position Status 4593 
3.7-4 10 bits Joystick 6 Grip Y-Axis Position 4594 
5.1 2 bits Joystick 6 Theta-Axis Neutral Position Status 4595 
5.3 2 bits Joystick 6 Theta-Axis Counter Clockwise Negative Position 
Status
4596
5.5 2 bits Joystick 6 Theta-Axis Clockwise Positive Position Status 4597 
5.7-6 10 bits Joystick 6 Theta-Axis Position 4598 
7.3 2 bits Joystick 6 Theta-Axis Detent Position Status 4599 
7.5 2 bits Joystick 6 Grip Y-Axis Detent Position Status 4600 
7.7 2 bits Joystick 6 Grip X-Axis Detent Position Status 4601 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 992 -
PGN 64812 Basic Joystick Message 6 BJM6 
Used to transfer information about the measured status of the 1st 2 axes and up to 12 buttons of a joystick. Additional 
handle information is available in the Expanded Joystick Message. 
10-bit position parameters are broadcast over 2 bytes. The eight most significant bits are transmitted in the second byte, 
with the most significant bit at bit 8. The two least significant bits are transmitted in the first byte in bit positions 7 and 8, 
with the most significant of the two bits at bit 8. 
10-bit position SPN Location in PGN 
Bit 10 Byte n Bit 8 
Bit 9 Bit 7 
Bit 8 Bit 6 
Bit 7 Bit 5 
Bit 6 Bit 4 
Bit 5 Bit 3 
Bit 4 Bit 2 
Bit 3 Bit 1 
Bit 2 Byte (n-1) Bit 8 
Bit 1 Bit 7 
Transmission Repetition Rate: Every 100 ms and on change of state, but no faster than every 20 ms. Grandfathered 
definition for systems that implemented this message prior to July, 2010: Every 100 
ms or on change of state, but no faster than every 20 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 44 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 3 
Parameter Group Number: 64812 (0x00FD2C) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits Joystick 6 X-Axis Neutral Position Status 4565 
1.3 2 bits Joystick 6 X-Axis Lever Left Negative Position Status 4566 
1.5 2 bits Joystick 6 X-Axis Lever Right Positive Position Status 4567 
1.7-2 10 bits Joystick 6 X-Axis Position 4568 
3.1 2 bits Joystick 6 Y-Axis Neutral Position Status 4569 
3.3 2 bits Joystick 6 Y-Axis Lever Back Negative Position Status 4570 
3.5 2 bits Joystick 6 Y-Axis Lever Forward Positive Position Status 4571 
3.7-4 10 bits Joystick 6 Y-Axis Position 4572 
5.5 2 bits Joystick 6 Y-Axis Detent Position Status 4573 
5.7 2 bits Joystick 6 X-Axis Detent Position Status 4574 
6.1 2 bits Joystick 6 Button 4 Pressed Status 4575 
6.3 2 bits Joystick 6 Button 3 Pressed Status 4576 
6.5 2 bits Joystick 6 Button 2 Pressed Status 4577 
6.7 2 bits Joystick 6 Button 1 Pressed Status 4578 
7.1 2 bits Joystick 6 Button 8 Pressed Status 4579 
7.3 2 bits Joystick 6 Button 7 Pressed Status 4580 
7.5 2 bits Joystick 6 Button 6 Pressed Status 4581 
7.7 2 bits Joystick 6 Button 5 Pressed Status 4582 
8.1 2 bits Joystick 6 Button 12 Pressed Status 4583 
8.3 2 bits Joystick 6 Button 11 Pressed Status 4584 
8.5 2 bits Joystick 6 Button 10 Pressed Status 4585 
8.7 2 bits Joystick 6 Button 9 Pressed Status 4586 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 993 -
PGN 64813 Extended Joystick Message 5 EJM5 
Used to transfer information about the measured status of three additional axes of a joystick and switches of the joystick 
grip or handle. The joystick axial motion information is available in the Basic Joystick Message. 
10-bit position parameters are broadcast over 2 bytes. The eight most significant bits are transmitted in the second byte, 
with the most significant bit at bit 8. The two least significant bits are transmitted in the first byte in bit positions 7 and 8, 
with the most significant of the two bits at bit 8. 
10-bit position SPN Location in PGN 
Bit 10 Byte n Bit 8 
Bit 9 Bit 7 
Bit 8 Bit 6 
Bit 7 Bit 5 
Bit 6 Bit 4 
Bit 5 Bit 3 
Bit 4 Bit 2 
Bit 3 Bit 1 
Bit 2 Byte (n-1) Bit 8 
Bit 1 Bit 7 
Note: The term Grip used here simply refers to another set of axes separate from the previously mentioned X and Y Axis. 
 This additional set of axes could in some cases be grip mounted sensors as opposed to the sensors mounted at the base 
of the handle. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: Every 100 ms and on change of state, but no faster than every 20 ms. Grandfathered 
definition for systems that implemented this message prior to July, 2010: Every 100 
ms or on change of state, but no faster than every 20 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 45 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 3 
Parameter Group Number: 64813 (0x00FD2D) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits Joystick 5 Grip X-Axis Neutral Position Status 4550 
1.3 2 bits Joystick 5 Grip X-Axis Lever Left Negative Position Status 4551 
1.5 2 bits Joystick 5 Grip X-Axis Lever Right Positive Position Status 4552 
1.7-2 10 bits Joystick 5 Grip X-Axis Position 4553 
3.1 2 bits Joystick 5 Grip Y-Axis Neutral Position Status 4554 
3.3 2 bits Joystick 5 Grip Y-Axis Lever Back Negative Position Status 4555 
3.5 2 bits Joystick 5 Grip Y-Axis Lever Forward Positive Position Status 4556 
3.7-4 10 bits Joystick 5 Grip Y-Axis Position 4557 
5.1 2 bits Joystick 5 Theta-Axis Neutral Position Status 4558 
5.3 2 bits Joystick 5 Theta-Axis Counter Clockwise Negative Position 
Status
4559
5.5 2 bits Joystick 5 Theta-Axis Clockwise Positive Position Status 4560 
5.7-6 10 bits Joystick 5 Theta-Axis Position 4561 
7.3 2 bits Joystick 5 Theta-Axis Detent Position Status 4562 
7.5 2 bits Joystick 5 Grip Y-Axis Detent Position Status 4563 
7.7 2 bits Joystick 5 Grip X-Axis Detent Position Status 4564 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 994 -
PGN 64814 Basic Joystick Message 5 BJM5 
Used to transfer information about the measured status of the 1st 2 axes and up to 12 buttons of a joystick. Additional 
handle information is available in the Expanded Joystick Message. 
10-bit position parameters are broadcast over 2 bytes. The eight most significant bits are transmitted in the second byte, 
with the most significant bit at bit 8. The two least significant bits are transmitted in the first byte in bit positions 7 and 8, 
with the most significant of the two bits at bit 8. 
10-bit position SPN Location in PGN 
Bit 10 Byte n Bit 8 
Bit 9 Bit 7 
Bit 8 Bit 6 
Bit 7 Bit 5 
Bit 6 Bit 4 
Bit 5 Bit 3 
Bit 4 Bit 2 
Bit 3 Bit 1 
Bit 2 Byte (n-1) Bit 8 
Bit 1 Bit 7 
Transmission Repetition Rate: Every 100 ms and on change of state, but no faster than every 20 ms. Grandfathered 
definition for systems that implemented this message prior to July, 2010: Every 100 
ms or on change of state, but no faster than every 20 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 46 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 3 
Parameter Group Number: 64814 (0x00FD2E) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits Joystick 5 X-Axis Neutral Position Status 4528 
1.3 2 bits Joystick 5 X-Axis Lever Left Negative Position Status 4529 
1.5 2 bits Joystick 5 X-Axis Lever Right Positive Position Status 4530 
1.7-2 10 bits Joystick 5 X-Axis Position 4531 
3.1 2 bits Joystick 5 Y-Axis Neutral Position Status 4532 
3.3 2 bits Joystick 5 Y-Axis Lever Back Negative Position Status 4533 
3.5 2 bits Joystick 5 Y-Axis Lever Forward Positive Position Status 4534 
3.7-4 10 bits Joystick 5 Y-Axis Position 4535 
5.5 2 bits Joystick 5 Y-Axis Detent Position Status 4536 
5.7 2 bits Joystick 5 X-Axis Detent Position Status 4537 
6.1 2 bits Joystick 5 Button 4 Pressed Status 4538 
6.3 2 bits Joystick 5 Button 3 Pressed Status 4539 
6.5 2 bits Joystick 5 Button 2 Pressed Status 4540 
6.7 2 bits Joystick 5 Button 1 Pressed Status 4541 
7.1 2 bits Joystick 5 Button 8 Pressed Status 4542 
7.3 2 bits Joystick 5 Button 7 Pressed Status 4543 
7.5 2 bits Joystick 5 Button 6 Pressed Status 4544 
7.7 2 bits Joystick 5 Button 5 Pressed Status 4545 
8.1 2 bits Joystick 5 Button 12 Pressed Status 4546 
8.3 2 bits Joystick 5 Button 11 Pressed Status 4547 
8.5 2 bits Joystick 5 Button 10 Pressed Status 4548 
8.7 2 bits Joystick 5 Button 9 Pressed Status 4549 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 995 -
PGN 64815 Extended Joystick Message 4 EJM4 
Used to transfer information about the measured status of three additional axes of a joystick and switches of the joystick 
grip or handle. The joystick axial motion information is available in the Basic Joystick Message. 
10-bit position parameters are broadcast over 2 bytes. The eight most significant bits are transmitted in the second byte, 
with the most significant bit at bit 8. The two least significant bits are transmitted in the first byte in bit positions 7 and 8, 
with the most significant of the two bits at bit 8. 
10-bit position SPN Location in PGN 
Bit 10 Byte n Bit 8 
Bit 9 Bit 7 
Bit 8 Bit 6 
Bit 7 Bit 5 
Bit 6 Bit 4 
Bit 5 Bit 3 
Bit 4 Bit 2 
Bit 3 Bit 1 
Bit 2 Byte (n-1) Bit 8 
Bit 1 Bit 7 
Note: The term Grip used here simply refers to another set of axes separate from the previously mentioned X and Y Axis. 
 This additional set of axes could in some cases be grip mounted sensors as opposed to the sensors mounted at the base 
of the handle. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: Every 100 ms and on change of state, but no faster than every 20 ms. Grandfathered 
definition for systems that implemented this message prior to July, 2010: Every 100 
ms or on change of state, but no faster than every 20 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 47 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 3 
Parameter Group Number: 64815 (0x00FD2F) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits Joystick 4 Grip X-Axis Neutral Position Status 4513 
1.3 2 bits Joystick 4 Grip X-Axis Lever Left Negative Position Status 4514 
1.5 2 bits Joystick 4 Grip X-Axis Lever Right Positive Position Status 4515 
1.7-2 10 bits Joystick 4 Grip X-Axis Position 4516 
3.1 2 bits Joystick 4 Grip Y-Axis Neutral Position Status 4517 
3.3 2 bits Joystick 4 Grip Y-Axis Lever Back Negative Position Status 4518 
3.5 2 bits Joystick 4 Grip Y-Axis Lever Forward Positive Position Status 4519 
3.7-4 10 bits Joystick 4 Grip Y-Axis Position 4520 
5.1 2 bits Joystick 4 Theta-Axis Neutral Position Status 4521 
5.3 2 bits Joystick 4 Theta-Axis Counter Clockwise Negative Position 
Status
4522
5.5 2 bits Joystick 4 Theta-Axis Clockwise Positive Position Status 4523 
5.7-6 10 bits Joystick 4 Theta-Axis Position 4524 
7.3 2 bits Joystick 4 Theta-Axis Detent Position Status 4525 
7.5 2 bits Joystick 4 Grip Y-Axis Detent Position Status 4526 
7.7 2 bits Joystick 4 Grip X-Axis Detent Position Status 4527 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 996 -
PGN 64816 Basic Joystick Message 4 BJM4 
Used to transfer information about the measured status of the 1st 2 axes and up to 12 buttons of a joystick. Additional 
handle information is available in the Expanded Joystick Message. 
10-bit position parameters are broadcast over 2 bytes. The eight most significant bits are transmitted in the second byte, 
with the most significant bit at bit 8. The two least significant bits are transmitted in the first byte in bit positions 7 and 8, 
with the most significant of the two bits at bit 8. 
10-bit position SPN Location in PGN 
Bit 10 Byte n Bit 8 
Bit 9 Bit 7 
Bit 8 Bit 6 
Bit 7 Bit 5 
Bit 6 Bit 4 
Bit 5 Bit 3 
Bit 4 Bit 2 
Bit 3 Bit 1 
Bit 2 Byte (n-1) Bit 8 
Bit 1 Bit 7 
Transmission Repetition Rate: Every 100 ms and on change of state, but no faster than every 20 ms. Grandfathered 
definition for systems that implemented this message prior to July, 2010: Every 100 
ms or on change of state, but no faster than every 20 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 48 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 3 
Parameter Group Number: 64816 (0x00FD30) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits Joystick 4 X-Axis Neutral Position Status 4491 
1.3 2 bits Joystick 4 X-Axis Lever Left Negative Position Status 4492 
1.5 2 bits Joystick 4 X-Axis Lever Right Positive Position Status 4493 
1.7-2 10 bits Joystick 4 X-Axis Position 4494 
3.1 2 bits Joystick 4 Y-Axis Neutral Position Status 4495 
3.3 2 bits Joystick 4 Y-Axis Lever Back Negative Position Status 4496 
3.5 2 bits Joystick 4 Y-Axis Lever Forward Positive Position Status 4497 
3.7-4 10 bits Joystick 4 Y-Axis Position 4498 
5.5 2 bits Joystick 4 Y-Axis Detent Position Status 4499 
5.7 2 bits Joystick 4 X-Axis Detent Position Status 4500 
6.1 2 bits Joystick 4 Button 4 Pressed Status 4501 
6.3 2 bits Joystick 4 Button 3 Pressed Status 4502 
6.5 2 bits Joystick 4 Button 2 Pressed Status 4503 
6.7 2 bits Joystick 4 Button 1 Pressed Status 4504 
7.1 2 bits Joystick 4 Button 8 Pressed Status 4505 
7.3 2 bits Joystick 4 Button 7 Pressed Status 4506 
7.5 2 bits Joystick 4 Button 6 Pressed Status 4507 
7.7 2 bits Joystick 4 Button 5 Pressed Status 4508 
8.1 2 bits Joystick 4 Button 12 Pressed Status 4509 
8.3 2 bits Joystick 4 Button 11 Pressed Status 4510 
8.5 2 bits Joystick 4 Button 10 Pressed Status 4511 
8.7 2 bits Joystick 4 Button 9 Pressed Status 4512 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 997 -
(R) PGN 64817 Fan Drive 2 FD2
This parameter group transfers status and measured information for a second engine coolant fan. For systems with a 
single or the primary fan, see PGN 65213. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 49 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64817 (0x00FD31) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Estimated Percent Fan 2 Speed 1550 
2.1 4 bits Fan 2 Drive State 1557 
3-4 2 bytes Fan 2 Speed 1598 
5-6 2 bytes Hydraulic Fan 2 Motor Pressure 1707 
7 1 byte Fan 2 Drive Bypass Command Status 1708 
(R) PGN 64819 Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Supply Information A2DEFSI 
This message contains diesel exhaust fluid supply information for aftertreatment system 2 (or bank 2). 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 51 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64819 (0x00FD33) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Pump Motor Speed 4440 
3 1 byte Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Pump Drive Percentage 4441 
4 1 byte Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Return Valve 4442 
5 1 byte Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 1 Fill Valve 
Command
5437
6.1 2 bits Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Pump State 5438 
7 1 byte Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 1 Drain Valve 
Command
5439
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 998 -
(R) PGN 64820 Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 2 Information A2DEFT2I 
This message contains diesel exhaust fluid tank 2 information for aftertreatment system 2 (or bank 2). The second tank 
for the aftertreatment system is usually a smaller quick-thaw diesel exhaust fluid tank located in series with tank 1. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 52 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64820 (0x00FD34) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 2 Level 4433 
2 1 byte Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 2 Temperature 4434 
3-4 2 bytes Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 2 Level 2 4435 
5.1 5 bits Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 2 Level Preliminary 
FMI
4436
6.1 5 bits Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 2 Temperature 
Prelminary FMI 
4437
7 4 bits Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 2 Heater 4438 
8.1 5 bits Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 2 Heater Prelminary 
FMI
4439
(R) PGN 64821 Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 1 Information A2DEFT1I 
This message contains diesel exhaust fluid tank 1 information for aftertreatment system 2 (or bank 2). The first tank for 
the aftertreatment syste is the primary diesel fluid storage tank. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 53 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64821 (0x00FD35) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 1 Level 4426 
2 1 byte Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 1 Temperature 4427 
3-4 2 bytes Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 1 Level 2 4428 
5.1 5 bits Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 1 Level Preliminary 
FMI
4429
6.1 5 bits Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 1 Temperature 
Preliminary FMI 
4430
7 1 byte Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 1 Heater 4431 
8.1 5 bits Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 1 Heater 
Preliminary FMI 
4432
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 999 -
(R) PGN 64822 Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Information A2DEFI 
Sensor Information which measures temperature, concentration, and conductivity of the diesel exhaust fluid of the 
aftertreatment 2 system. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 54 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64822 (0x00FD36) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Temperature 2 4420 
2 1 byte Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Concentration 4421 
3 1 byte Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Conductivity 4422 
4.1 5 bits Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Temperature2 
Preliminary FMI 
4423
5.1 5 bits Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Properties Preliminary 
FMI
4424
6.1 4 bits Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Property 4425 
PGN 64823 Aftertreatment 2 SCR Service Information A2SCRSI 
This message contains SCR service information for aftertreatment system 2 (or bank 2). 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 55 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 8 
Parameter Group Number: 64823 (0x00FD37) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Average Consumption 4417 
3-4 2 bytes Aftertreatment 2 SCR Commanded Catalyst Diesel Exhaust 
Fluid Consumption 
4418
5 1 byte Aftertreatment 2 SCR Conversion Efficiency 4419 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1000 -
PGN 64824 Aftertreatment 2 SCR Exhaust Gas Temperature A2SCREGT 
This message contains SCR catalyst intake and outlet exhaust gas temperature information for aftertreatment system 2 
(or bank 2). 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 500 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 56 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64824 (0x00FD38) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Aftertreatment 2 SCR Catalyst Intake Gas Temperature 4413 
3.1 5 bits Aftertreatment 2 SCR Catalyst Intake Gas Temperature 
Preliminary FMI 
4414
4-5 2 bytes Aftertreatment 2 SCR Catalyst Outlet Gas Temperature 4415 
6.1 5 bits Aftertreatment 2 SCR Catalyst Outlet Gas Temperature 
Preliminary FMI 
4416
PGN 64825 Aftertreatment 2 SCR Exhaust Gas Pressures A2SCREGP 
This message contains SCR catalyst exhaust gas pressure information for aftertreatment system 2 (or bank 2). 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 500 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 57 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64825 (0x00FD39) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Aftertreatment 2 SCR Exhaust Gas Differential Pressure 4411 
3.1 5 bits Aftertreatment 2 SCR Exhaust Gas Differential Pressure 
Preliminary FMI 
4412
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1001 -
PGN 64826 Aftertreatment 2 SCR Dosing System Requests 2 A2SCRDSR2 
This message contains SCR dosing system request information for aftertreatment system 2 (or bank 2). 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 500 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 58 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 
Parameter Group Number: 64826 (0x00FD3A) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.3 2 bits Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Doser Fault Suppression 
Request
4405
1.5 3 bits Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Doser Heating Mode 
Request
4406
2.1 2 bits Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Line Heater 1 4407 
2.3 2 bits Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Line Heater 2 4408 
2.5 2 bits Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Line Heater 3 4409 
2.7 2 bits Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Line Heater 4 4410 
3 1 byte Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 1 Heater Command 5138 
4 1 byte Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 2 Heater Command 5415 
PGN 64827 Aftertreatment 2 SCR Dosing System Information 2 A2SCRDSI2 
This message contains SCR dosing system information for aftertreatment system 2 (or bank 2). See PGN 61478 for 
more information. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 500 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 59 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64827 (0x00FD3B) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Aftertreatment 2 SCR Dosing Air Assist Absolute Pressure 4388 
2 1 byte Aftertreatment 2 SCR Dosing Air Assist Valve 4389 
3 1 byte Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Dosing Temperature 4390 
4.1 3 bits Aftertreatment 2 SCR Dosing Valve Exhaust Temp. Reduction 
Request
4391
4.4 3 bits Aftertreatment 2 SCR Feedback Control Status 4392 
5.1 2 bits Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Line Heater 1 State 4393 
5.3 5 bits Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Line Heater 1 Preliminary 
FMI
4394
6.1 2 bits Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Line Heater 2 State 4395 
6.3 5 bits Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Line Heater 2 Preliminary 
FMI
4396
7.1 2 bits Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Line Heater 3 State 4397 
7.3 5 bits Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Line Heater 3 Preliminary 
FMI
4398
8.1 2 bits Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Line Heater 4 State 4399 
8.3 5 bits Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Line Heater 4 Preliminary 
FMI
4400
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1002 -
(R) PGN 64828 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Supply Information A1DEFSI 
This message contains diesel exhaust fluid supply information for aftertreatment system 1 (or bank 1). 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 60 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64828 (0x00FD3C) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Pump Motor Speed 4374 
3 1 byte Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Pump Drive Percentage 4375 
4 1 byte Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Return Valve 4376 
5 1 byte Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 1 Fill Valve 
Command
5434
6.1 2 bits Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Pump State 5435 
7 1 byte Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 1 Drain Valve 
Command
5436
(R) PGN 64829 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 2 Information A1DEFT2I 
This message contains diesel exhaust fluid tank 2 information for aftertreatment system 1 (or bank 1). The second tank 
for the aftertreatment system is usually a smaller quick-thaw reagent tank located in series with tank 1. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 61 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64829 (0x00FD3D) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 2 Level 4367 
2 1 byte Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 2 Temperature 4368 
3-4 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 2 Level 2 4369 
5.1 5 bits Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 2 Level Preliminary 
FMI
4370
6.1 5 bits Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 2 Temperature 
Prelminary FMI 
4371
7 1 byte Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 2 Heater 4372 
8.1 5 bits Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 2 Heater Prelminary 
FMI
4373
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1003 -
PGN 64830 Aftertreatment 1 SCR Exhaust Gas Temperature A1SCREGT 
This message contains SCR catalyst intake and outlet exhaust gas temperature information for aftertreatment system 1 
(or bank 1). 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 500 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 62 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 5 
Parameter Group Number: 64830 (0x00FD3E) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 SCR Catalyst Intake Gas Temperature 4360 
3.1 5 bits Aftertreatment 1 SCR Catalyst Intake Gas Temperature 
Preliminary FMI 
4361
4-5 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 SCR Catalyst Outlet Gas Temperature 4363 
6.1 5 bits Aftertreatment 1 SCR Catalyst Outlet Gas Temperature 
Preliminary FMI 
4362
PGN 64831 Aftertreatment 1 SCR Exhaust Gas Pressures A1SCREGP 
This message contains SCR catalyst exhaust gas pressure information for aftertreatment system 1 (or bank 1). 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 500 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 63 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64831 (0x00FD3F) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 SCR Exhaust Gas Differential Pressure 4358 
3.1 5 bits Aftertreatment 1 SCR Exhaust Gas Differential Pressure 
Preliminary FMI 
4359
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1004 -
PGN 64832 Aftertreatment 1 SCR Dosing System Requests 2 A1SCRDSR2 
This message contains SCR dosing system request information for aftertreatment system 1 (or bank 1). See PGN 61476 
for more information. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 500 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 64 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64832 (0x00FD40) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.3 2 bits Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Doser Fault Suppression 
Request
4352
1.5 3 bits Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Doser Heating Mode 
Request
4353
2.1 2 bits Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Line Heater 1 Request 4354 
2.3 2 bits Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Line Heater 2 Request 4355 
2.5 2 bits Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Line Heater 3 Request 4356 
2.7 2 bits Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Line Heater 4 Request 4357 
3 1 byte Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 1 Heater Command 5137 
4 1 byte Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 2 Heater Command 5414 
PGN 64833 Aftertreatment 1 SCR Dosing System Information 2 A1SCRDSI2 
This message contains SCR dosing system information for aftertreatment system 1 (or bank 1). See PGN 61475 for 
more information. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 500 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 65 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64833 (0x00FD41) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Aftertreatment 1 SCR Dosing Air Assist Absolute Pressure 4335 
2 1 byte Aftertreatment 1 SCR Dosing Air Assist Valve 4336 
3 1 byte Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Dosing Temperature 4337 
4.1 3 bits Aftertreatment 1 SCR Dosing Valve Exhaust Temperature 
Reduction Request 
4338
4.4 3 bits Aftertreatment 1 SCR Feedback Control Status 4339 
5.1 2 bits Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Line Heater 1 State 4340 
5.3 5 bits Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Line Heater 1 Preliminary 
FMI
4341
6.1 2 bits Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Line Heater 2 State 4342 
6.3 5 bits Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Line Heater 2 Preliminary 
FMI
4343
7.1 2 bits Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Line Heater 3 State 4344 
7.3 5 bits Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Line Heater 3 Preliminary 
FMI
4345
8.1 2 bits Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Line Heater 4 State 4346 
8.3 5 bits Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Line Heater 4 Preliminary 
FMI
4347
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1005 -
PGN 64836 Aftertreatment 2 Fuel Control 2 AT2FC2 
Contains information about the aftertreatment 2 fuel system. See also PGN 64928. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 500 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 68 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64836 (0x00FD44) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Aftertreatment 2 Fuel Pressure 2 4303 
3.1 2 bits Aftertreatment 2 Fuel Pump Relay Control 5426 
3.3 2 bits Aftertreatment 2 Fuel Flow Diverter Valve Control 5427 
4-5 2 bytes Aftertreatment 2 Fuel Pressure 2 Control 5428 
PGN 64837 Aftertreatment 2 Three Way Catalytic Converter AT2TWCC 
The purpose of this PGN is to group the aftertreatment Three Way Catalytic Converter data for bank 2. These values 
include the intake temperature, outlet temperature and differential pressure as well as the associated preliminary FMIs. 
Note: The 5 bits of SPN 4299 are positioned into the data field in the following manner. The 2 most significant bits are 
placed in bits 2-1 of byte 8 such that the most significant bit of SPN 4299 located at byte 8 bit 2, and the 3 least significant
bits are placed in bits 8-6 of byte 7 such that the least significant bit of SPN 4299 located at byte 7 bit 6. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 500 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 69 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64837 (0x00FD45) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Aftertreatment 2 Three Way Catalytic Converter Intake Gas 
Temperature 
4295
3-4 2 bytes Aftertreatment 2 Three Way Catalytic Converter Outlet Gas 
Temperature 
4296
5-6 2 bytes Aftertreatment 2 Three Way Catalytic Converter Differential 
Pressure
4297
7.1 5 bits Aftertreatment 2 Three Way Catalytic Converter Intake Gas 
Temperature Preliminary FMI 
4298
7.6-8.1 5 bits Aftertreatment 2 Three Way Catalytic Converter Outlet Gas 
Temperature Preliminary FMI 
4299
8.3 5 bits Aftertreatment 2 Three Way Catalytic Converter Differential 
Pressure Preliminary FMI 
4300
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1006 -
PGN 64838 Aftertreatment 1 Three Way Catalytic Converter AT1TWCC 
The purpose of this PGN is to group the aftertreatment Three Way Catalytic Converter data for bank 1. These values 
include the intake temperature, outlet temperature and differential pressure as well as the associated preliminary FMIs. 
Note: The 5 bits of SPN 4293 are positioned into the data field in the following manner. The 2 most significant bits are 
placed in bits 2-1 of byte 8 such that the most significant bit of SPN 4293 located at byte 8 bit 2, and the 3 least significant
bits are placed in bits 8-6 of byte 7 such that the least significant bit of SPN 4293 located at byte 7 bit 6. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 500 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 70 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64838 (0x00FD46) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Three Way Catalytic Converter Intake Gas 
Temperature 
4289
3-4 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Three Way Catalytic Converter Outlet Gas 
Temperature 
4290
5-6 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Three Way Catalytic Converter Differential 
Pressure
4291
7.1 5 bits Aftertreatment 1 Three Way Catalytic Converter Intake Gas 
Temperature Preliminary FMI 
4292
7.6-8.1 5 bits Aftertreatment 1 Three Way Catalytic Converter Outlet Gas 
Temperature Preliminary FMI 
4293
8.3 5 bits Aftertreatment 1 Three Way Catalytic Converter Differential 
Pressure Preliminary FMI 
4294
PGN 64839 Transmission Mode Labels TML 
ASCII text string describing a manufacturer-specific Transmission Mode. This PGN may contain up to 8 instances of the 
Transmission Mode Label field (for Transmission Mode 1 through Transmission Mode 8) with each separated by the 
asterisk (*) delimiter character. The Mode Labels are placed in increasing order of the mode number (i.e. Mode 1 label is 
first, followed by Mode 2 label, etc). It is not necessary to include text for each mode; however, the delimiter is always 
required for each, i.e. the data field must include all 8 asterisk delimiters even if the application does not provide label 
data for each of the modes. 
NOTE – The ASCII character “*” is reserved as the delimiter 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: Variable 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 71 PGN Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 64839 
Default Priority: 7 
Parameter Group Number: 64839 (0x00FD47) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
A Variable - up to 
25 bytes followed 
by an "*" 
delimiter
Transmission Mode Label 4254 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1007 -
PGN 64840 Engine Exhaust Bank 2 O2 Fuel Trim O2FT2 
Provides bank 2 short-term and long-term fuel trim values 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On Request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 72 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64840 (0x00FD48) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Long-term Fuel Trim - Bank 2 4239 
3-4 2 bytes Short-term Fuel Trim - Bank 2 4238 
5.1 4 bits Engine Exhaust Gas Oxygen Sensor Closed Loop Operation, 
Bank 2 
4241
PGN 64841 Engine Exhaust Bank 1 O2 Fuel Trim O2FT1 
Provides bank 1 short-term and long-term fuel trim values 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On Request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 73 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64841 (0x00FD49) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Long-term Fuel Trim - Bank 1 4237 
3-4 2 bytes Short-term Fuel Trim - Bank 1 4236 
5.1 4 bits Engine Exhaust Gas Oxygen Sensor Closed Loop Operation, 
Bank 1 
4240
PGN 64849 Aftercooler Coolant Control Valve Command ACCVC 
Transmit status information from the Master ECU to an electronic thermostat 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 sec 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 81 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 4 
Parameter Group Number: 64849 (0x00FD51) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits Aftercooler Coolant Thermostat Mode 4198 
2 1 byte Desired Aftercooler Coolant Intake Temperature 4199 
3 1 byte Desired Aftercooler Coolant Thermostat Opening 4200 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1008 -
(R) PGN 64850 Engine Coolant Control Valve Command ECCVC 
Transmit status information from the Master ECU to an electronic thermostat 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 sec 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 82 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 4 
Parameter Group Number: 64850 (0x00FD52) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits Engine Coolant Thermostat Mode 4195 
2 1 byte Desired Engine Coolant Pump Outlet Temperature 4196 
3 1 byte Desired Engine Coolant Thermostat Opening 4197 
4 1 byte Engine Auxiliary Cooler Supply Valve 1 Actuator Command 5546 
5 1 byte Engine Auxiliary Cooler Supply Valve 2 Actuator Command 5547 
PGN 64851 Engine Average Information EAI 
Reports averaged engine information 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 500 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 83 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 5 
Parameter Group Number: 64851 (0x00FD53) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Engine Exhaust Gas Temperature Average 4151 
3-4 2 bytes Engine Exhaust Gas Temperature Average - Bank 1 4153 
5-6 2 bytes Engine Exhaust Gas Temperature Average - Bank 2 4152 
PGN 64869 Aftertreatment 1 Fuel Control 2 AT1FC2 
Contains information about the aftertreatment 1 fuel system. See also PGN 64929. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 500 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 101 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64869 (0x00FD65) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Fuel Pressure 2 4077 
3.1 2 bits Aftertreatment 1 Fuel Pump Relay Control 5423 
3.3 2 bits Aftertreatment 1 Fuel Flow Diverter Valve Control 5424 
4-5 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Fuel Pressure 2 Actuator Control 5425 
6 1 byte Aftertreatment 1 Hydrocarbon Doser Intake Fuel Temperature 5456 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1009 -
PGN 64870 Engine Temperature 4 ET4 
Engine temperatures 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 102 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64870 (0x00FD66) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Engine Coolant Temperature 2 4076 
2 1 byte Engine Coolant Pump Outlet Temperature 4193 
3 1 byte Engine Coolant Thermostat Opening 4194 
4-5 2 bytes Engine Exhaust Valve Actuation System Oil Temperature 4288 
6-7 2 bytes Engine Exhaust Gas Recirculation 1 Mixer Intake Temperature 5020 
PGN 64871 Zero Net Vehicle Weight Change ZNVW 
Zero Net Vehicle Weight Change 
Transmission Repetition Rate: As needed 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 103 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64871 (0x00FD67) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits Zero Net Vehicle Weight Change 4075 
PGN 64872 Gross Combination Vehicle Weight GCVW 
Gross Combination Vehicle Weight 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 104 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 5 
Parameter Group Number: 64872 (0x00FD68) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-3 3 bytes Gross Combination Weight 417 
4-6 3 bytes Net Vehicle Weight Change 413 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1010 -
PGN 64873 Axle Group Calibration Weights AGCW 
Indicates axle group calibration weights 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request. Upon request, will be broadcast as many times as required to transmit all 
available axle groups. 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 105 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 7 
Parameter Group Number: 64873 (0x00FD69) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 4 bits Axle Group Location 4074 
2-3 2 bytes Axle Group Empty Weight Calibration 408 
4-5 2 bytes Axle Group Full Weight Calibration 407 
PGN 64874 Axle Group Weight AGW 
Combination of specific axle group and the weight imposed on that axle group 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request. Upon request, will be broadcast as many times as required to transmit all 
available axle groups. 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 106 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 5 
Parameter Group Number: 64874 (0x00FD6A) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 4 bits Axle Group Location 4073 
2-3 2 bytes Axle Group Weight 409 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1011 -
PGN 64875 Available Axle Group Weights AAGW 
Indicates which axle groups are included in the current weight calculation 
Transmission Repetition Rate: As needed. Broadcast whenever an axle group equipped with an on-board scale 
joined or left the on-board scale subset. 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 107 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64875 (0x00FD6B) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits Steer Axle Group Weight Available 4059 
1.3 2 bits Lift Axle Group Weight Available 4060 
1.5 2 bits Drive Axle Group Weight Available 4061 
1.7 2 bits Tag Axle Group Weight Available 4062 
2.1 2 bits Additional Tractor Axle Group Weight Available 4063 
2.3 2 bits Trailer A Axle Group Weight Available 4064 
2.5 2 bits Trailer B Axle Group Weight Available 4065 
2.7 2 bits Trailer C Axle Group Weight Available 4066 
3.1 2 bits Trailer D Axle Group Weight Available 4067 
3.3 2 bits Trailer E Axle Group Weight Available 4068 
3.5 2 bits Trailer F Axle Group Weight Available 4069 
3.7 2 bits Trailer G Axle Group Weight Available 4070 
4.1 2 bits Trailer H Axle Group Weight Available 4071 
4.3 2 bits Additional Trailer Axle Group Weight Available 4072 
PGN 64876 Aftertreatment 2 Air Control 2 AT2AC2 
This PGN contains information about the Aftertreatment 2 Air Control.
NOTE: This message will be transmitted by the engine or aftertreatment controller. Other aftertreatment air control 
information could be added in the future. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 500 msec 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 108 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64876 (0x00FD6C) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Aftertreatment 2 Secondary Air Differential Pressure 3833 
3-4 2 bytes Aftertreatment 2 Secondary Air Temperature 3834 
5-6 2 bytes Aftertreatment 2 Secondary Air Mass Flow 3835 
7-8 2 bytes Aftertreatment 2 Secondary Air Pressure 3838 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1012 -
PGN 64877 Aftertreatment 1 Air Control 2 AT1AC2 
This PGN contains information about the Aftertreatment 1 Air Control.
NOTE: This message will be transmitted by the engine or aftertreatment controller. Other aftertreatment air control 
information could be added in the future. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 500 msec 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 109 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64877 (0x00FD6D) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Secondary Air Differential Pressure 3830 
3-4 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Secondary Air Temperature 3831 
5-6 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Secondary Air Mass Flow 3832 
7-8 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Secondary Air Pressure 3837 
PGN 64878 Aftertreatment 1 SCR Service Information SCR1 
Used to provide information to an inspection tool regarding the proper use of reagent in SCR type emissions control 
systems. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 110 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64878 (0x00FD6E) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Average Consumption 3826 
3-4 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Commanded Diesel Exhaust Fluid 
Consumption
3828
5 1 byte Aftertreatment 1 SCR Conversion Efficiency 4364 
6-7 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 SCR Operator Inducement Active Traveled 
Distance
5463
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1013 -
PGN 64879 Electronic Engine Controller 8 EEC8 
Engine related parameters 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 111 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64879 (0x00FD6F) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Engine Exhaust Gas Recirculation 1 (EGR1) Valve 2 Control 3821 
3-4 2 bytes Engine Exhaust Gas Recirculation 1 (EGR1) Cooler Intake 
Temperature 
4750
5-6 2 bytes Engine Exhaust Gas Recirculation 1 (EGR1) Cooler Intake Gas 
Absolute Pressure 
4751
7 1 byte Engine Exhaust Gas Recirculation 1 (EGR1) Cooler Efficiency 4752 
PGN 64880 Door ramp control DRC 
This message reports the current status of door ramps 
Transmission Repetition Rate: Every 1 s while active and on change of state but no faster than every 100 ms. 
Grandfathered definition for systems that implemented this message prior to July, 
2010: 1 s when active and on change of state 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 112 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64880 (0x00FD70) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits Retract Status of ramp 1 3810 
1.3 2 bits Enable status of ramp 1 3811 
1.5 2 bits Movement status of ramp 1 3812 
2.1 2 bits Retract Status of ramp 2 3813 
2.3 2 bits Enable status of ramp 2 3814 
2.5 2 bits Movement status of ramp 2 3815 
3.1 2 bits Retract Status of ramp 3 3816 
3.3 2 bits Enable status of ramp 3 3817 
3.5 2 bits Movement status of ramp 3 3818 
4.1 2 bits Retract Status of ramp 4 4454 
4.3 2 bits Enable status of ramp 4 4455 
4.5 2 bits Movement status of ramp 4 4456 
5.1 2 bits Retract Status of ramp 5 4457 
5.3 2 bits Enable status of ramp 5 4458 
5.5 2 bits Movement status of ramp 5 4459 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1014 -
PGN 64881 Brake actuator stroke status BSA 
The Brake Stroke Alert (BSA) message will provide the brake actuator stroke status for up to 20 wheel ends. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 sec 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 113 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64881 (0x00FD71) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 3 bits Tractor Brake Stroke Axle 1 Left 3785 
1.4 3 bits Tractor Brake Stroke Axle 1 Right 3786 
1.7-2.1 3 bits Tractor Brake Stroke Axle 2 Left 3787 
2.2 3 bits Tractor Brake Stroke Axle 2 Right 3788 
2.5 3 bits Tractor Brake Stroke Axle 3 Left 3789 
2.8-3.1 3 bits Tractor Brake Stroke Axle 3 Right 3790 
3.3 3 bits Tractor Brake Stroke Axle 4 Left 3791 
3.6 3 bits Tractor Brake Stroke Axle 4 Right 3792 
4.1 3 bits Tractor Brake Stroke Axle 5 Left 3793 
4.4 3 bits Tractor Brake Stroke Axle 5 Right 3794 
4.7-5.1 3 bits Trailer Brake Stroke Axle 1 Left 3795 
5.2 3 bits Trailer Brake Stroke Axle 1 Right 3796 
5.5 3 bits Trailer Brake Stroke Axle 2 Left 3797 
5.8-6.1 3 bits Trailer Brake Stroke Axle 2 Right 3798 
6.3 3 bits Trailer Brake Stroke Axle 3 Left 3799 
6.6 3 bits Trailer Brake Stroke Axle 3 Right 3800 
7.1 3 bits Trailer Brake Stroke Axle 4 Left 3801 
7.4 3 bits Trailer Brake Stroke Axle 4 Right 3802 
7.7-8.1 3 bits Trailer Brake Stroke Axle 5 Left 3803 
8.2 3 bits Trailer Brake Stroke Axle 5 Right 3804 
PGN 64882 Engine Spark Voltage 6 ESV6 
The PGN contains information about spark voltage values for cylinders 21 through 24. This is the secondary voltage of 
the combustion event. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 114 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64882 (0x00FD72) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Engine Spark Plug 21 1314 
3-4 2 bytes Engine Spark Plug 22 1315 
5-6 2 bytes Engine Spark Plug 23 1316 
7-8 2 bytes Engine Spark Plug 24 1317 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1015 -
PGN 64883 Engine Spark Voltage 5 ESV5 
The PGN contains information about spark voltage values for cylinders 17 through 20. This is the secondary voltage of 
the combustion event. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 115 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64883 (0x00FD73) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Engine Spark Plug 17 1310 
3-4 2 bytes Engine Spark Plug 18 1311 
5-6 2 bytes Engine Spark Plug 19 1312 
7-8 2 bytes Engine Spark Plug 20 1313 
PGN 64884 Engine Spark Voltage 4 ESV4 
The PGN contains information about spark voltage values for cylinders 13 through 16. This is the secondary voltage of 
the combustion event. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 116 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64884 (0x00FD74) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Engine Spark Plug 13 1306 
3-4 2 bytes Engine Spark Plug 14 1307 
5-6 2 bytes Engine Spark Plug 15 1308 
7-8 2 bytes Engine Spark Plug 16 1309 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1016 -
PGN 64885 Engine Spark Voltage 3 ESV3 
The PGN contains information about spark voltage values for cylinders 9 through 12. This is the secondary voltage of the 
combustion event. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 117 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64885 (0x00FD75) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Engine Spark Plug 9 1302 
3-4 2 bytes Engine Spark Plug 10 1303 
5-6 2 bytes Engine Spark Plug 11 1304 
7-8 2 bytes Engine Spark Plug 12 1305 
PGN 64886 Engine Spark Voltage 2 ESV2 
The PGN contains information about spark voltage values for cylinders 5 through 8. This is the secondary voltage of the 
combustion event. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 118 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64886 (0x00FD76) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Engine Spark Plug 5 1298 
3-4 2 bytes Engine Spark Plug 6 1299 
5-6 2 bytes Engine Spark Plug 7 1300 
7-8 2 bytes Engine Spark Plug 8 1301 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1017 -
PGN 64887 Engine Spark Voltage 1 ESV1 
The PGN contains information about spark voltage values for cylinders 1 through 4. This is the secondary voltage of the 
combustion event. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 119 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64887 (0x00FD77) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Engine Spark Plug 1 1294 
3-4 2 bytes Engine Spark Plug 2 1295 
5-6 2 bytes Engine Spark Plug 3 1296 
7-8 2 bytes Engine Spark Plug 4 1297 
PGN 64888 Aftertreatment 2 Trip Information AT2TI 
This PGN contains trip total information about the aftertreatment 2.
NOTE: The SPNs in this PGN need to be reset by the reset PGN 56832. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 32 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 120 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64888 (0x00FD78) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
01-04 4 bytes Aftertreatment 2 Trip Fuel Used 3741 
05-08 4 bytes Aftertreatment 2 Trip Active Regeneration Time 3742 
09-12 4 bytes Aftertreatment 2 Trip Disabled Time 3743 
13-16 4 bytes Aftertreatment 2 Trip Number of Active Regenerations 3744 
17-20 4 bytes Aftertreatment 2 Trip Passive Regeneration Time 3745 
21-24 4 bytes Aftertreatment 2 Trip Number of Passive Regenerations 3746 
25-28 4 bytes Aftertreatment 2 Trip Number of Active Regeneration Inhibit 
Requests
3747
29-32 4 bytes Aftertreatment 2 Trip Number of Active Regeneration Manual 
Requests
3748
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1018 -
PGN 64889 Aftertreatment 1 Trip Information AT1TI 
This PGN contains trip total information about the aftertreatment 1.
NOTE: The SPNs in this PGN need to be reset by the reset PGN 56832. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 32 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 121 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64889 (0x00FD79) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
01-04 4 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Trip Fuel Used 3733 
05-08 4 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Trip Active Regeneration Time 3734 
09-12 4 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Trip Disabled Time 3735 
13-16 4 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Trip Number of Active Regenerations 3736 
17-20 4 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Trip Passive Regeneration Time 3737 
21-24 4 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Trip Number of Passive Regenerations 3738 
25-28 4 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Trip Number of Active Regeneration Inhibit 
Requests
3739
29-32 4 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Trip Number of Active Regeneration Manual 
Requests
3740
PGN 64890 Aftertreatment 2 Service AT2S 
This PGN contains information about the aftertreatment 2 (diesel particulate filter 2 soot and ash load). 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 122 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64890 (0x00FD7A) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Diesel Particulate Filter 2 Soot Load Percent 3722 
2 1 byte Diesel Particulate Filter 2 Ash Load Percent 3723 
3-6 4 bytes Diesel Particulate Filter 2 Time Since Last Active Regeneration 3724 
7 2 bytes Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Particulate Filter Soot Load 
Regeneration Threshold 
5467
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1019 -
PGN 64891 Aftertreatment 1 Service AT1S 
This PGN contains information about the aftertreatment 1 (diesel particulate filter 1 soot and ash load). 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 123 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64891 (0x00FD7B) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Diesel Particulate Filter 1 Soot Load Percent 3719 
2 1 byte Diesel Particulate Filter 1 Ash Load Percent 3720 
3-6 4 bytes Diesel Particulate Filter 1 Time Since Last Active Regeneration 3721 
7 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Particulate Filter Soot Load 
Regeneration Threshold 
5466
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1020 -
(R) PGN 64892 Diesel Particulate Filter Control 1 DPFC1 
This PGN contains information about the diesel particulate filter regeneration control. 
If there are aftertreatment systems on two banks, this PGN represents the composite information from both banks. 
NOTE: This message will be transmitted by the engine or aftertreatment system controller. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: Every 1 s and on change of state but no faster than every 100 ms. Grandfathered 
definition for systems that implemented this message prior to July, 2010: 1 s and on 
change
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 124 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64892 (0x00FD7C) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 3 bits Diesel Particulate Filter Lamp Command 3697 
2.1 2 bits Diesel Particulate Filter Passive Regeneration Status 3699 
2.3 2 bits Diesel Particulate Filter Active Regeneration Status 3700 
2.5 3 bits Diesel Particulate Filter Status 3701 
3.1 2 bits Diesel Particulate Filter Active Regeneration Inhibited Status 3702 
3.3 2 bits Diesel Particulate Filter Active Regeneration Inhibited Due to 
Inhibit Switch 
3703
3.5 2 bits Diesel Particulate Filter Active Regeneration Inhibited Due to 
Clutch Disengaged 
3704
3.7 2 bits Diesel Particulate Filter Active Regeneration Inhibited Due to 
Service Brake Active 
3705
4.1 2 bits Diesel Particulate Filter Active Regeneration Inhibited Due to 
PTO Active 
3706
4.3 2 bits Diesel Particulate Filter Active Regeneration Inhibited Due to 
Accelerator Pedal Off Idle 
3707
4.5 2 bits Diesel Particulate Filter Active Regeneration Inhibited Due to 
Out of Neutral 
3708
4.7 2 bits Diesel Particulate Filter Active Regeneration Inhibited Due to 
Vehicle Speed Above Allowed Speed 
3709
5.1 2 bits Diesel Particulate Filter Active Regeneration Inhibited Due to 
Parking Brake Not Set 
3710
5.3 2 bits Diesel Particulate Filter Active Regeneration Inhibited Due to 
Low Exhaust Gas Temperature 
3711
5.5 2 bits Diesel Particulate Filter Active Regeneration Inhibited Due to 
System Fault Active 
3712
5.7 2 bits Diesel Particulate Filter Active Regeneration Inhibited Due to 
System Timeout 
3713
6.1 2 bits Diesel Particulate Filter Active Regeneration Inhibited Due to 
Temporary System Lockout 
3714
6.3 2 bits Diesel Particulate Filter Active Regeneration Inhibited Due to 
Permanent System Lockout 
3715
6.5 2 bits Diesel Particulate Filter Active Regeneration Inhibited Due to 
Engine Not Warmed Up 
3716
6.7 2 bits Diesel Particulate Filter Active Regeneration Inhibited Due to 
Vehicle Speed Below Allowed Speed 
3717
7.1 2 bits Diesel Particulate Filter Automatic Active Regeneration 
Initiation Configuration 
3718
7.3 3 bits Exhaust System High Temperature Lamp Command 3698 
7.6 3 bits Diesel Particulate Filter Active Regeneration Forced Status 4175 
8.1 2 bits Hydrocarbon Doser Purging Enable 5504 
8.3 2 bits Diesel Particulate Filter Active Regeneration Inhibited Due to 
Low Exhaust Gas Pressure 
5629
8.5 2 bits Diesel Particulate Filter 1 Conditions Not Met for Active 
Regeneration
3750
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1021 -
PGN 64894 Adaptive Front-Lighting System Status AFSS 
This message reports information about the current operation mode of the Adaptive Front-Lighting System (AFS). The 
Message may include information about dynamic bending light and light distribution. The message provides feedback to 
the light controller and my be used to ensure a fail safe state in case of malfunction. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 126 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64894 (0x00FD7E) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 3 bits Left Headlamp Dynamic Bending Light 3691 
1.4 3 bits Right Headlamp Dynamic Bending Light 3692 
2.1 4 bits Left Headlamp Light Distribution 3693 
2.5 4 bits Right Headlamp Light Distribution 3694 
PGN 64895 Engine Configuration 2 EC2 
Contains static information about the engine. To be used with data that will not change during vehicle operation. 
.
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 127 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64895 (0x00FD7F) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Maximum Crank Attempts per Start Attempt 3670 
PGN 64897 EGR Cooler Bypass EGRBV 
Contains information about the EGR Cooler Bypass 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 500 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 129 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 5 
Parameter Group Number: 64897 (0x00FD81) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte EGR1 Cooler Bypass Actuator Postion 3672 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1022 -
PGN 64899 Transfer Case Information TCI 
Transfer Case Information 
Transmission Repetition Rate: Every 1 s and on change of state but no faster than every 100 ms. Grandfathered 
definition for systems that implemented this message prior to July, 2010: 1 s or on 
change
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 131 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64899 (0x00FD83) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 3 bits Transfer case status 3645 
PGN 64900 Engine Fluid Level/Pressure 9 EFL/P9 
This message contains Engine Intake Valve Actuation Oil Pressure information. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 500 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 132 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64900 (0x00FD84) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Engine Intake Valve Actuation Oil Pressure for Cylinder #17 3640 
3-4 2 bytes Engine Intake Valve Actuation Oil Pressure for Cylinder #18 3641 
5-6 2 bytes Engine Intake Valve Actuation Oil Pressure for Cylinder #19 3642 
7-8 2 bytes Engine Intake Valve Actuation Oil Pressure for Cylinder #20 3643 
PGN 64901 Engine Fluid Level/Pressure 8 EFL/P8 
This message contains Engine Intake Valve Actuation Oil Pressure information. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 500 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 133 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64901 (0x00FD85) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Engine Intake Valve Actuation Oil Pressure for Cylinder #13 3636 
3-4 2 bytes Engine Intake Valve Actuation Oil Pressure for Cylinder #14 3637 
5-6 2 bytes Engine Intake Valve Actuation Oil Pressure for Cylinder #15 3638 
7-8 2 bytes Engine Intake Valve Actuation Oil Pressure for Cylinder #16 3639 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1023 -
PGN 64902 Engine Fluid Level/Pressure 7 EFL/P7 
This message contains Engine Intake Valve Actuation Oil Pressure information. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 500 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 134 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64902 (0x00FD86) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Engine Intake Valve Actuation Oil Pressure for Cylinder #9 3632 
3-4 2 bytes Engine Intake Valve Actuation Oil Pressure for Cylinder #10 3633 
5-6 2 bytes Engine Intake Valve Actuation Oil Pressure for Cylinder #11 3634 
7-8 2 bytes Engine Intake Valve Actuation Oil Pressure for Cylinder #12 3635 
PGN 64903 Engine Fluid Level/Pressure 6 EFL/P6 
This message contains Engine Intake Valve Actuation Oil Pressure information. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 500 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 135 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64903 (0x00FD87) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Engine Intake Valve Actuation Oil Pressure for Cylinder #5 3628 
3-4 2 bytes Engine Intake Valve Actuation Oil Pressure for Cylinder #6 3629 
5-6 2 bytes Engine Intake Valve Actuation Oil Pressure for Cylinder #7 3630 
7-8 2 bytes Engine Intake Valve Actuation Oil Pressure for Cylinder #8 3631 
PGN 64904 Engine Fluid Level/Pressure 5 EFL/P5 
This message contains Engine Intake Valve Actuation Oil Pressure information. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 500 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 136 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64904 (0x00FD88) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Engine Intake Valve Actuation Oil Pressure for Cylinder #1 3624 
3-4 2 bytes Engine Intake Valve Actuation Oil Pressure for Cylinder #2 3625 
5-6 2 bytes Engine Intake Valve Actuation Oil Pressure for Cylinder #3 3626 
7-8 2 bytes Engine Intake Valve Actuation Oil Pressure for Cylinder #4 3627 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1024 -
PGN 64905 Vehicle Direction/Speed 2 VDS2 
Vehicle Direction/Speed 2 PGN contains the vehicle roll data. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 137 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64905 (0x00FD89) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Vehicle Roll 3623 
PGN 64906 SAE J2012 DTC Display J2012 
Conveys basic SAE J2012 DTC information for on-board or service tool displays.
If PGN 64906 is requested and a supporting device has no active or inactive J2012 DTCs, PGN 64906 shall be sent with 
the first data byte ( Number of J2012 DTCs) set to zero. Any unused bytes in the PGN shall be set to 255. When two or 
more J2012 DTCs are indicated PGN 64906 must be sent via Transport Protocol (See J1939-21). 
See supporting information for data byte arrangement and example. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: Variable 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 138 PGN Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 64906 
Default Priority: 7 
Parameter Group Number: 64906 (0x00FD8A) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Number of J2012 DTCs 3619 
2-6 5 bytes J2012 DTC 3620 
7.1 1 bit J2012 DTC Status 3621 
7.2 7 bits J2012 DTC Occurrence Count 3622 
PGN 64907 Aftertreatment 2 Gas Parameters AT2GP 
Diesel particulate filter gas parameters for system or bank 2 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 500 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 139 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64907 (0x00FD8B) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Diesel Particulate Filter Intake Pressure 2 3611 
3-4 2 bytes Diesel Particulate Filter Outlet Pressure 2 3612 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1025 -
PGN 64908 Aftertreatment 1 Gas Parameters AT1GP 
Diesel particulate filter gas parameters for system or bank 1 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 500 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 140 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64908 (0x00FD8C) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Diesel Particulate Filter Intake Pressure 1 3609 
3-4 2 bytes Diesel Particulate Filter Outlet Pressure 1 3610 
PGN 64912 Advertised Engine Torque Curve AETC 
This message conveys the advertised torque curve for the engine, as typically seen on specification sheets available from 
most engine manufacturers. The collection conditions for the data conveyed are indicated by SPN 3558 – AETC Data 
Collection Standard.
This map does not contain dynamic elements, and does not change during engine operation. For engines capable of 
dynamically switching between torque curves or ratings during operation, this map contains values for the highest (most 
powerful) rating. This map is not intended for use in real time engine control, but merely to indicate what engine rating is 
installed in the vehicle. 
Data points on the curve are in order from left to right, and, at a minimum, must span from the lowest rpm where peak 
torque can be produced to the high speed governor breakpoint. SPN 3559 – Number of AETC Data Points indicates the 
number of data point pairs being sent. A minimum of 5 points must be supported, with up to 15 available as needed to 
properly convey the shape of the torque curve. Speed values need not be evenly incremented. 
The pair of data points (a and b) are repeated in the PGN for the number of data points identified in byte 1. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: Variable 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 144 PGN Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 64912 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64912 (0x00FD90) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 4 bits AETC Data Collection Standard 3558 
1.5 4 bits Number of AETC data points 3559 
a 2 bytes AETC Speed Value 3560 
b 2 bytes AETC Torque value 3561 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1026 -
PGN 64914 Engine Operating Information EOI 
Contains engine parameters related to operation. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 250 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 146 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 3 
Parameter Group Number: 64914 (0x00FD92) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 4 bits Engine Operating State 3543 
1.5 2 bits Fuel Pump Primer Control 4082 
2-3 2 bytes Time Remaining in Engine Operating State 3544 
4.1 2 bits Engine Fuel Shutoff Vent Control 3608 
4.3 2 bits Engine Fuel Shutoff 1 Control 632 
4.5 2 bits Engine Fuel Shutoff 2 Control 2807 
4.7 2 bits Engine Fuel Shutoff Valve Leak Test Control 3601 
5.1 2 bits Engine Oil Priming Pump Control 3589 
5.3 2 bits Engine Oil Pre-heater Control 3602 
5.5 2 bits Engine Electrical System Power Conservation Control 3603 
5.7 2 bits Engine Block / Coolant Pre-heater Control 3604 
6.1 2 bits Engine Coolant Circulating Pump Control 3605 
6.3 2 bits Engine Controlled Shutdown Request 3606 
6.5 2 bits Engine Emergency (Immediate) Shutdown Indication 3607 
8 1 byte Engine Derate Request 3644 
PGN 64916 Electronic Engine Controller 7 EEC7 
Engine related parameters 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 100 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 148 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64916 (0x00FD94) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Engine Exhaust Gas Recirculation 1 Valve Position 27 
3-4 2 bytes Engine Exhaust Gas Recirculation 1 Valve 2 Position 3822 
5-6 2 bytes Engine Crankcase Breather Oil Separator Speed 5444 
7-8 2 bytes Commanded Engine Intake Manifold Pressure 5312 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1027 -
PGN 64917 Transmission Fluids 2 TRF2 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 149 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64917 (0x00FD95) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits Transmission Oil Filter Restriction Switch 3359 
1.3 2 bits Transmission Oil Level Switch 3533 
1.5 2 bits Transmission Overheat Indicator 5345 
2-3 2 bytes Transmission Torque Converter Oil Outlet Temperature 3823 
4 1 byte Transmission Oil Life Remaining 4177 
PGN 64920 Aftertreatment 1 Historical Information AT1HI 
Contains information about the history of the aftertreatment 1 system 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: Variable 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 152 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64920 (0x00FD98) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
01-04 4 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Total Fuel Used 3522 
05-08 4 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Total Regeneration Time 3523 
09-12 4 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Total Disabled Time 3524 
13-16 4 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Total Number of Active Regenerations 3525 
17-20 4 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Total Passive Regeneration Time 3725 
21-24 4 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Total Number of Passive Regenerations 3726 
25-28 4 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Total Number of Active Regeneration Inhibit 
Requests
3727
29-32 4 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Total Number of Active Regeneration Manual 
Requests
3728
33-36 4 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Average Time Between Active Regenerations 5454 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1028 -
PGN 64921 Aftertreatment 2 Historical information AT2HI 
Contains information about the history of the aftertreatment 2 system 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: Variable 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 153 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64921 (0x00FD99) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
01-04 4 bytes Aftertreatment 2 Total Fuel Used 3526 
05-08 4 bytes Aftertreatment 2 Total Regeneration Time 3527 
09-12 4 bytes Aftertreatment 2 Total Disabled Time 3528 
13-16 4 bytes Aftertreatment 2 Total Number of Active Regenerations 3529 
17-20 4 bytes Aftertreatment 2 Total Passive Regeneration Time 3729 
21-24 4 bytes Aftertreatment 2 Total Number of Passive Regenerations 3730 
25-28 4 bytes Aftertreatment 2 Total Number of Active Regeneration Inhibit 
Requests
3731
29-32 4 bytes Aftertreatment 2 Total Number of Active Regeneration Manual 
Requests
3732
33-36 4 bytes Aftertreatment 2 Average Time Between Active Regenerations 5455 
(R) PGN 64923 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Information A1DEFI 
Sensor Information which measures temperature, concentration, and conductivity of the diesel exhaust fluid of the 
aftertreatment 1 system. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 sec 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 155 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64923 (0x00FD9B) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Temperature 2 3515 
2 1 byte Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Concentration 3516 
3 1 byte Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Conductivity 3518 
4.1 5 bits Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Temperature 2 
Preliminary FMI 
3519
5.1 5 bits Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Properties Preliminary 
FMI
3520
6.1 4 bits Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Property 3521 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1029 -
PGN 64924 Sensor Electrical Power #2 SEP2 
Voltage supplies for sensors #2 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 sec 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 156 PGN Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 65104 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64924 (0x00FD9C) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Sensor supply voltage 5 3513 
3-4 2 bytes Sensor supply voltage 6 3514 
5-6 2 bytes Sensor supply voltage 7 5125 
7-8 2 bytes Sensor supply voltage 8 5126 
PGN 64925 Sensor Electrical Power #1 SEP1 
Voltage supplies for sensors #1 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 sec 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 157 PGN Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 65104 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64925 (0x00FD9D) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Sensor supply voltage 1 3509 
3-4 2 bytes Sensor supply voltage 2 3510 
5-6 2 bytes Sensor supply voltage 3 3511 
7-8 2 bytes Sensor supply voltage 4 3512 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1030 -
PGN 64926 Aftertreatment 2 Air Control 1 AT2AC1 
Contains information about the aftertreatment 2 air system 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 500 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 158 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64926 (0x00FD9E) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Aftertreatment 2 Supply Air Pressure 3499 
3-4 2 bytes Aftertreatment 2 Purge Air Pressure 3500 
5-6 2 bytes Aftertreatment 2 Air Pressure Control 3501 
7.1 1 byte Aftertreatment 2 Air Pressure Actuator Position 3502 
8.1 2 bits Aftertreatment 2 Air System Relay 3506 
8.3 2 bits Aftertreatment 2 Atomization Air Actuator 3505 
8.5 2 bits Aftertreatment 2 Purge Air Actuator 3504 
8.7 2 bits Aftertreatment 2 Air Enable Actuator 3503 
PGN 64927 Aftertreatment 1 Air Control 1 AT1AC1 
Contains information about the aftertreatment 1 air system 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 500 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 159 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64927 (0x00FD9F) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Supply Air Pressure 3485 
3-4 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Purge Air Pressure 3486 
5-6 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Air Pressure Control 3487 
7.1 1 byte Aftertreatment 1 Air Pressure Actuator Position 3488 
8.1 2 bits Aftertreatment 1 Air System Relay 3492 
8.3 2 bits Aftertreatment 1 Atomization Air Actuator 3491 
8.5 2 bits Aftertreatment 1 Purge Air Actuator 3490 
8.7 2 bits Aftertreatment 1 Air Enable Actuator 3489 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1031 -
PGN 64928 Aftertreatment 2 Fuel Control 1 AT2FC1 
Contains information about the aftertreatment 2 fuel system 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 500 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 160 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64928 (0x00FDA0) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Aftertreatment 2 Fuel Pressure 1 3494 
3-4 2 bytes Aftertreatment 2 Fuel Rate 3495 
5-6 2 bytes Aftertreatment 2 Fuel Pressure 1 Control 3493 
7.1 2 bits Aftertreatment 2 Fuel Drain Actuator 4098 
7.3 2 bits Aftertreatment 2 Ignition 3498 
7.5 2 bits Aftertreatment 2 Regeneration Status 3497 
7.7 2 bits Aftertreatment 2 Fuel Enable Actuator 3496 
8 1 byte Aftertreatment 2 Fuel Injector 1 Heater Control 4302 
PGN 64929 Aftertreatment 1 Fuel Control 1 AT1FC1 
Contains information about the aftertreatment 1 fuel system 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 500 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 161 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64929 (0x00FDA1) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Fuel Pressure 1 3480 
3-4 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Fuel Rate 3481 
5-6 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Fuel Pressure 1 Control 3479 
7.1 2 bits Aftertreatment 1 Fuel Drain Actuator 4097 
7.3 2 bits Aftertreatment 1 Ignition 3484 
7.5 2 bits Aftertreatment 1 Regeneration Status 3483 
7.7 2 bits Aftertreatment 1 Fuel Enable Actuator 3482 
8 1 byte Aftertreatment 1 Fuel Injector 1 Heater Control 4301 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1032 -
PGN 64930 Fuel Information 3 (Gaseous) GFI3 
Gaseous fuel information 3 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 500 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 162 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 4 
Parameter Group Number: 64930 (0x00FDA2) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Engine Fuel Valve 2 Intake Absolute Pressure 3466 
3-4 2 bytes Engine Gas 2 Mass Flow Rate 3467 
5 1 byte Engine Fuel Temperature 2 3468 
7-8 2 bytes Engine Fuel Valve 2 Outlet Absolute Pressure 3469 
PGN 64931 Electronic Engine Controller 6 EEC6 
Engine related parameters 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 100 msec (preferred) or Engine Speed Dependent (if required by application) 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 163 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 4 
Parameter Group Number: 64931 (0x00FDA3) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Engine Turbocharger Compressor Bypass Actuator 1 
Command
3470
3 1 byte Engine Variable Geometry Turbocharger Actuator #1 641 
4 1 byte Engine Turbocharger Compressor Bypass Actuator 1 Position 3675 
5-6 2 bytes Engine Turbocharger Compressor Bypass Actuator 2 command 5369 
7 1 byte Engine Desired Turbocharger Compressor Bypass Actuator 1 
Position
5366
8.1 5 bits Engine Turbocharger Compressor Bypass Actuator 1 
Preliminary FMI 
5367
8.6 3 bits Engine Turbocharger Compressor Bypass Actuator 1 
Temperature Status 
5368
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1033 -
PGN 64932 PTO Drive Engagement PTODE 
Information relating to the request for engagement, consent for engagement, and status of engagement of various 
specific physical PTO drives. This message may be broadcast by one or all controllers involved in the enabling of a given 
PTO drive. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 100 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 164 PGN Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 64932 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64932 (0x00FDA4) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits Enable Switch – Transfer case output shaft PTO 3455 
1.3 2 bits Enable Switch – Transmission output shaft PTO 3454 
1.5 2 bits Enable Switch – Transmission input shaft PTO 2 3453 
1.7 2 bits Enable Switch – Transmission input shaft PTO 1 3452 
2.1 2 bits Enable Switch - PTO Engine Flywheel 3939 
2.3 2 bits Enable Switch - PTO Engine Accessory Drive 1 3942 
2.5 2 bits Enable Switch - PTO Engine Accessory Drive 2 3945 
3.1 2 bits Engagement Consent – Transfer case output shaft PTO 3459 
3.3 2 bits Engagement Consent – Transmission output shaft PTO 3458 
3.5 2 bits Engagement Consent – Transmission input shaft PTO 2 3457 
3.7 2 bits Engagement Consent – Transmission input shaft PTO 1 3456 
4.1 2 bits Engagement Consent - PTO Engine Flywheel 3940 
4.3 2 bits Engagement Consent - PTO Engine Accessory Drive 1 3943 
4.5 2 bits Engagement Consent - PTO Engine Accessory Drive 2 3946 
5.1 2 bits Engagement Status – Transfer case output shaft PTO 3463 
5.3 2 bits Engagement Status – Transmission output shaft PTO 3462 
5.5 2 bits Engagement Status – Transmission input shaft PTO 2 3461 
5.7 2 bits Engagement Status – Transmission input shaft PTO 1 3460 
6.1 2 bits Engagement Status - PTO Engine Flywheel 3941 
6.3 2 bits Engagement Status - PTO Engine Accessory Drive 1 3944 
6.5 2 bits Engagement Status - PTO Engine Accessory Drive 2 3947 
7.1 2 bits At least one PTO engaged 3948 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1034 -
PGN 64933 Door Control 2 DC2
Used for door information. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 100 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 165 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64933 (0x00FDA5) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits Lock Status of Door 1 3412 
1.3 2 bits Open Status of Door 1 3413 
1.5 2 bits Enable Status of Door 1 3414 
1.7 2 bits Lock Status of Door 2 3415 
2.1 2 bits Open Status of Door 2 3416 
2.3 2 bits Enable Status of Door 2 3417 
2.5 2 bits Lock Status of Door 3 3418 
2.7 2 bits Open Status of Door 3 3419 
3.1 2 bits Enable Status of Door 3 3420 
3.3 2 bits Lock Status of Door 4 3421 
3.5 2 bits Open Status of Door 4 3422 
3.7 2 bits Enable Status of Door 4 3423 
4.1 2 bits Lock Status of Door 5 3424 
4.3 2 bits Open Status of Door 5 3425 
4.5 2 bits Enable Status of Door 5 3426 
4.7 2 bits Lock Status of Door 6 3427 
5.1 2 bits Open Status of Door 6 3428 
5.3 2 bits Enable Status of Door 6 3429 
5.5 2 bits Lock Status of Door 7 3430 
5.7 2 bits Open Status of Door 7 3431 
6.1 2 bits Enable Status of Door 7 3432 
6.3 2 bits Lock Status of Door 8 3433 
6.5 2 bits Open Status of Door 8 3434 
6.7 2 bits Enable Status of Door 8 3435 
7.1 2 bits Lock Status of Door 9 3436 
7.3 2 bits Open Status of Door 9 3437 
7.5 2 bits Enable Status of Door 9 3438 
7.7 2 bits Lock Status of Door 10 3439 
8.1 2 bits Open Status of Door 10 3440 
8.3 2 bits Enable Status of Door 10 3441 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1035 -
PGN 64936 Wireless Communications Message 2 WCM2 
Message for reporting status information regarding the second instance of a wireless communications network on a 
device or system. 
See PGN 64937 for the first wireless network. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 168 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64936 (0x00FDA8) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 8 bits Network Transceiver Status 2 3442 
2 8 bits Network Service Status 2 3443 
3 8 bits Network Antenna Status 2 3444 
4 1 byte Network Signal Strength 2 3445 
5 8 bits Wireless Communication Network Type 2 3446 
PGN 64937 Wireless Communications Message 1 WCM1 
Message for reporting status information regarding the first instance of a wireless communications network on a device or 
system. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 169 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64937 (0x00FDA9) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 8 bits Network Transceiver Status 1 3368 
2 8 bits Network Service Status 1 3369 
3 8 bits Network Antenna Status 1 3370 
4 1 byte Network Signal Strength 1 3371 
5 8 bits Wireless Communication Network Type 1 3372 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1036 -
PGN 64938 Engine Fluid Level/Pressure 4 EFL/P4 
4th PGN which identifies parameters that are either measuring various pressures within the engine or identifying engine 
fluid levels 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 500 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 170 PGN Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 64938 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64938 (0x00FDAA) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Engine Charge Air Cooler 1 Intake Pressure 3340 
2 1 byte Engine Charge Air Cooler 2 Intake Pressure 3341 
3 1 byte Engine Coolant Pump Differential Pressure 3342 
4-5 2 bytes Engine Centrifugal Oil Filter speed 3343 
6 1 byte Engine Intercooler Coolant Level 3668 
7 1 byte Engine Aftercooler Coolant Level 3676 
8 1 byte Engine Charge Air Cooler Outlet Pressure 2631 
PGN 64942 Fifth Wheel Smart Systems 2 FWSS2 
Fifth wheel smart system information #2. Message to convey operator parameters associated with the tractor to trailer 
coupling control and error state. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 174 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64942 (0x00FDAE) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 4 bits Fifth Wheel Error Status 3307 
1.5 2 bits Fifth Wheel Lock Ready to Couple Indicator 3312 
1.7 2 bits Fifth Wheel Lock Couple Status Indicator 3313 
2 1 byte Fifth Wheel Slider Position 3311 
3.1 2 bits Fifth Wheel Slider Lock Indicator 3316 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1037 -
PGN 64943 Aftertreatment 2 Intermediate Gas AT2IMG 
The purpose of this PGN is to group the aftertreatment intermediate gas temperature and pressure messages for bank 2. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 500 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 175 PGN Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 64948 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64943 (0x00FDAF) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Aftertreatment 2 Exhaust Gas Temperature 2 3283 
3-4 2 bytes Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Particulate Filter Intermediate Gas 
Temperature 
3284
5-6 2 bytes Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Particulate Filter Differential Pressure 3285 
7.1 5 bits Aftertreatment 2 Exhaust Gas Temperature 2 Preliminary FMI 3286 
7.6-8.1 5 bits Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Particulate Filter Delta Pressure 
Preliminary FMI 
3287
8.3 5 bits Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Particulate Filter Intermediate Gas 
Temperature Preliminary FMI 
3288
PGN 64944 Aftertreatment 2 Outlet Gas 2 AT2OG2 
The purpose of this PGN is to group the aftertreatment outlet gas temperature messages for bank 2. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 500 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 176 PGN Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 64948 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64944 (0x00FDB0) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Aftertreatment 2 Exhaust Gas Temperature 3 3279 
3-4 2 bytes Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Particulate Filter Outlet Gas 
Temperature 
3280
5.1 5 bits Aftertreatment 2 Exhaust Gas Temperature 3 Preliminary FMI 3281 
6.1 5 bits Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Particulate Filter Exhaust Gas 
Temperature Preliminary FMI 
3282
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1038 -
PGN 64945 Aftertreatment 2 Intake Gas 2 AT2IG2 
The purpose of this PGN is to group the aftertreatment intake gas temperature messages for bank 2. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 500 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 177 PGN Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 64948 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64945 (0x00FDB1) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Aftertreatment 2 Exhaust Gas Temperature 1 3275 
3-4 2 bytes Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Particulate Filter Intake Gas 
Temperature 
3276
5.1 5 bits Aftertreatment 2 Exhaust Gas Temperature 1 Preliminary FMI 3277 
6.1 5 bits Aftertreatment 2 Diesel Particulate Filter Intake Gas 
Temperature Preliminary FMI 
3278
PGN 64946 Aftertreatment 1 Intermediate Gas AT1IMG 
The purpose of this PGN is to group the aftertreatment intermediate gas temperature and pressure messages. 
Note: The 5 bits of SPN 3253 are positioned into the data field in the following manner. The 2 most significant bits are 
placed in bits 2-1 of byte 8 such that the most significant bit of SPN 3253 located at byte 8 bit 2, and the 3 least significant
bits are placed in bits 8-6 of byte 7 such that the least significant bit of SPN 3253 located at byte 7 bit 6. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 500 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 178 PGN Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 64948 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64946 (0x00FDB2) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Exhaust Gas Temperature 2 3249 
3-4 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Particulate Filter Intermediate Gas 
Temperature 
3250
5-6 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Particulate Filter Differential Pressure 3251 
7.1 5 bits Aftertreatment 1 Exhaust Gas Temperature 2 Preliminary FMI 3252 
7.6-8.1 5 bits Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Particulate Filter Delta Pressure 
Preliminary FMI 
3253
8.3 5 bits Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Particulate Filter Intermediate Gas 
Temperature Preliminary FMI 
3254
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1039 -
PGN 64947 Aftertreatment 1 Outlet Gas 2 AT1OG2 
The purpose of this PGN is to group the aftertreatment outlet gas temperature messages. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 500 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 179 PGN Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 64948 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64947 (0x00FDB3) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Exhaust Gas Temperature 3 3245 
3-4 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Particulate Filter Outlet Gas 
Temperature 
3246
5.1 5 bits Aftertreatment 1 Exhaust Gas Temperature 3 Preliminary FMI 3247 
6.1 5 bits Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Particulate Filter Outlet Exhaust Gas 
Temperature Preliminary FMI 
3248
PGN 64948 Aftertreatment 1 Intake Gas 2 AT1IG2 
The purpose of this PGN is to group the aftertreatment intake gas temperature messages for bank 1. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 500 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 180 PGN Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 64948 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64948 (0x00FDB4) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Exhaust Gas Temperature 1 3241 
3-4 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Particulate Filter Intake Gas 
Temperature 
3242
5.1 5 bits Aftertreatment 1 Exhaust Gas Temperature 1 Preliminary FMI 3243 
6.1 5 bits Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Particulate Filter Intake Gas 
Temperature Preliminary FMI 
3244
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1040 -
PGN 64953 Tire Pressure Reference Information TPRI 
Information on actual tire pressure reference value for monitoring. 
NOTE–Message has to repeated as necessary to transmit all available information. This method of location identification 
requires individual SPNs to be assigned to report failures specific to each individual component (I.e. each tire, each axle, 
etc.).
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 185 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64953 (0x00FDB9) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 8 bits Tire Location 3190 
2 1 byte Reference Tire Pressure 3191 
PGN 64954 Farebox Status TR6
Used to report alarms of the fare collection unit. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 186 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64954 (0x00FDBA) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits Farebox Emergency Status 3179 
2.1 7 bits Farebox Alarm Identifier 3181 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1041 -
PGN 64955 Farebox Point of Sale TR5 
Used to report stop level point of sale detail. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 187 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64955 (0x00FDBB) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 4 bits Transaction Type 3170 
1.5 4 bits Passenger Type 3171 
2.1 4 bits Type of Fare 3176 
2.5 4 bits Payment Details 3177 
3.1 4 bits Fare Validity 3165 
3.5 4 bits Pass Category 3166 
4.1 5 bits Initial Fare Agency 3167 
5.1 3 bits Type of Service 3172 
5.4 5 bits Transfer Type 3173 
6, 7.1 12 bits Route Number 3169 
8 1 byte Transfer Sold 3168 
PGN 64956 Farebox Service Detail TR4 
Used to identify service, assignments, and fare preset detail of the fare collection unit. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 15 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 188 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64956 (0x00FDBC) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
01.1 2 bits Farebox Service Status 3178 
01.3 3 bits Trip Status 3180 
02.1 4 bits Trip Direction 3174 
03 8 bits Fare Presets 3175 
04-05 2 bytes Trip Number 3159 
06-07 2 bytes Pattern Number 3161 
08-09 2 bytes Assigned Route 3160 
10-11 2 bytes Assigned Run 3162 
12-13 2 bytes Assigned Block 3163 
14-15 2 bytes Driver's farebox security code 3164 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1042 -
PGN 64957 Signal Preemption TR3
Status and configuration of the device used for intersection preemption. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 189 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64957 (0x00FDBD) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.3 2 bits Range Code Enable 3081 
1.5 2 bits Transit Route ID Usage 3080 
1.7 2 bits Intersection Preemption Request/Response 3079 
2.1 4 bits Priority of Response Sent by Emitter 3084 
2.5 2 bits Transit Door Enable 3083 
2.7 2 bits Strobe Activation Control Status 3082 
3,4 2 bytes Vehicle ID 3085 
PGN 64958 Transit Route TR1
The current route assigned to this transit vehicle. The transit route information may be entered into different devices by 
different authorities (fare collection, radio log, unit control panel, etc.). 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: variable 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 190 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64958 (0x00FDBE) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Agency 3078 
2 1 byte Number of bytes in the Transit Assigned Route Identity 3071 
3 1 byte Number of bytes in the Transit Assigned Run Identity 3072 
4 1 byte Number of bytes in the Transit Assigned Block Identity 3073 
5 to A Variable - up to 
100 bytes 
Transit Assigned Route Identity 3074 
A+1 to B Variable - up to 
100 bytes 
Transit Assigned Run Identity 3075 
B+1 to C Variable - up to 
100 bytes 
Transit Assigned Block Identity 3076 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1043 -
PGN 64959 Transit Milepost TR2
Identification of a transit route milepost 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: variable 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 191 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64959 (0x00FDBF) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Number of bytes in the Milepost Identification 3070 
2 to n Variable - up to 
100 bytes 
Milepost Identification 509 
PGN 64960 Passenger Counter TR7 
Used to notify the transit link devices of real-time boarding and exiting passengers or to indicate the total number of 
passengers on vehicle referenced to the last transit stop. 
Also transmits information on the use status of the vehicle. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 192 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64960 (0x00FDC0) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 8 bits Type of Passenger Count 3043 
2 1 byte Patron Count 3047 
3.1 2 bits Silent Alarm Status 3044 
3.3 2 bits Vehicle Use Status 3045 
3.5 2 bits Transit Run Status 3046 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1044 -
(R) PGN 64961 Engine Fluid Level/Pressure 3 EFL/P3 
3rd PGN which identifies parameters that are either measuring various pressures within the engine or identifying engine 
fluid levels 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 500 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 193 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64961 (0x00FDC1) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Engine Intake Valve Actuation System Oil Pressure 2948 
3 1 byte Engine Exhaust Gas Recirculation 1 Intake Pressure 3358 
4-5 2 bytes Engine Exhaust Valve Actuation System Oil Pressure 4287 
6 1 byte Engine Exhaust Gas Recirculation 1 Outlet Pressure 5019 
7-8 2 bytes Engine Throttle Valve Differential Pressure 5631 
PGN 64964 Electronic Brake Controller 5 EBC5 
Used for information on brake control. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 100 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 196 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64964 (0x00FDC4) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits Brake Temperature Warning 3839 
1.3 3 bits Halt brake mode 2913 
1.6 3 bits Hill holder mode 2912 
2.1 2 bits Foundation Brake Use 2919 
2.3 2 bits XBR System State 2917 
2.5 4 bits XBR Active Control Mode 2918 
3 1 byte XBR Acceleration Limit 2921 
4.1 2 bits Parking Brake Actuator Fully Activated 5275 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1045 -
PGN 64965 ECU Identification Information ECUID 
Message for reporting identification and information about the physical ECU and its hardware, such as the ECU's part 
number, serial number, build date, etc. Information about the software within the ECU should be reported using the 
Software Identification PGN 65242 and/or DM19. 
NOTE - The fields in this message are optional and separated by an ASCII “*”. It is not necessary to include parametric 
data for all fields; however, the delimiter (“*”) is always required. An ASCII “*” is required at the end of the last included
field, even if there is only one ECU identification designator. Any additional ECU identification fields defined in the future
will be appended at the end, each separated by an ASCII “*” as a delimiter. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: Variable 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 197 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64965 (0x00FDC5) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
a Variable - up to 
200 bytes 
followed by an "*" 
delimiter
ECU Part Number 2901 
b Variable - up to 
200 bytes 
followed by an "*" 
delimiter
ECU Serial Number 2902 
c Variable - up to 
200 bytes 
followed by an "*" 
delimiter
ECU Location 2903 
d Variable - up to 
200 bytes 
followed by an "*" 
delimiter
ECU Type 2904 
e Variable - up to 
200 bytes 
followed by an "*" 
delimiter
ECU Manufacturer Name 4304 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1046 -
(R) PGN 64966 Cold Start Aids CSA
Cold start aid information and settings. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: As required 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 198 PGN Supporting Information: See Addendix D - PGN 64966 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64966 (0x00FDC6) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits Engine Start Enable Device 1 626 
1.3 2 bits Engine Start Enable Device 2 1804 
2.1 4 bits Engine Start Enable Device 1 Configuration 2899 
2.5 4 bits Engine Start Enable Device 2 Configuration 2898 
3 1 byte Engine Cold Start Fuel Igniter Command 5548 
4.1 2 bits Engine Cold Start Fuel Igniter Relay Command 5549 
4.3 2 bits Engine Cold Start Fuel Igniter Relay Feedback 5550 
PGN 64967 Off-Highway Engine Control Selection States OHCSS 
Reports the states of off-highway engine control modes, as they apply to different modes of engine operation which may 
be used to aid particular working environments. These states provide the controls feedback for PGN 64971 which 
provides the operator inputs to the controller. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 0.5 s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 199 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64967 (0x00FDC7) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits Engine Auxiliary Governor State 2896 
1.3 2 bits Engine Multi-Unit Sync State 2890 
1.5 2 bits Engine Alternate Low Idle Select State 2891 
2 8 bits Engine Alternate Rating Select State 2888 
3.1 4 bits Engine Alternate Droop Accelerator 1 Select State 2889 
3.5 4 bits Engine Alternate Droop Accelerator 2 Select State 2893 
4.1 4 bits Engine Alternate Droop Remote Accelerator Select State 2894 
4.5 4 bits Engine Alternate Droop Auxiliary Input Select State 2895 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1047 -
PGN 64968 Operator Primary Intermediate Speed Control state ISCS 
The Operator Primary Intermediate Speed Control State is used to provide the controller feedback to indicate the controls 
state achieved. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 200 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64968 (0x00FDC8) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 4 bits Engine Operator Primary Intermediate Speed Select State 2892 
PGN 64969 Electronic Control Module Information CMI 
Information relating to electronic control modules 
Transmission Repetition Rate: As required 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 201 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 7 
Parameter Group Number: 64969 (0x00FDC9) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Total Count of Configuration Changes Made 2887 
PGN 64970 Intermediate Speed Control ISC 
The Intermediate Speed Control is widely used in the Industrial application to control the engine to an intermediate speed 
setting which can bypass the accelerator position control. An example of this operation would be in an agricultural 
application where an external device is connected to an output shaft from the engine which must then be controlled to a 
constant speed. This is accomplished by activating a switch setting, thus eliminating the need for the operator to attempt 
to control this speed with the accelerator position. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 202 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64970 (0x00FDCA) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 4 bits Engine Operator Primary Intermediate Speed Select 2880 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1048 -
PGN 64971 Off-Highway Engine Control Selection OHECS 
Allows for the selection of off-highway engine control modes, as they apply to different modes of engine operation which 
may be used to aid particular working environments. By offering characteristics suitable for the work in hand, the operator 
may select the desired mode (e.g. economy fuel ratings, droop settings, alternate idle points, multiple engine 
synchronization, etc.) to maximize performance under given conditions. The operator selects these inputs via hardwire 
switch operation, whereby an overall system control communicates the information to the engine controller. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 500 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 203 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64971 (0x00FDCB) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits Engine Auxiliary Governor Switch 2884 
1.3 2 bits Engine Synchronization Switch 1377 
1.5 2 bits Engine Alternate Low Idle Switch 2883 
2 1 byte Engine Alternate Rating Select 2882 
3.1 4 bits Engine Alternate Droop Accelerator 1 Select 2881 
3.5 4 bits Engine Alternate Droop Accelerator 2 Select 2879 
4.1 4 bits Engine Alternate Droop Remote Accelerator Select 2886 
4.5 4 bits Engine Alternate Droop Auxiliary Input Select 2885 
PGN 64972 Operators External Light Controls Message OEL 
The message containing the information about the position of the operator's external light control switch(s). Including 
switches for the Headlights, turn signals, hazard light, clearance lights, marker lights, etc. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: Every 1 s and on change of switch state but no faster than every 100 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 204 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 3 
Parameter Group Number: 64972 (0x00FDCC) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 4 bits Work Light Switch 2873 
1.5 4 bits Main Light Switch 2872 
2.1 4 bits Turn Signal Switch 2876 
2.5 2 bits Hazard Light Switch 2875 
2.7 2 bits High-Low Beam Switch 2874 
3 1 byte Operators Desired Back-light 2878 
4-5 2 bytes Operators Desired - Delayed Lamp Off Time 2877 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1049 -
PGN 64973 Operator Wiper and Washer Controls Message OWW 
Message for items related to the operators controls for the window wipers and washers on the front and rear cab windows 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 200 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 205 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64973 (0x00FDCD) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 4 bits Front Non-operator Wiper Switch 2864 
1.5 4 bits Front Operator Wiper Switch 2863 
2.5 4 bits Rear Wiper Switch 2865 
3 1 byte Front Operator Wiper Delay Control 2869 
4 1 byte Front Non-operator Wiper Delay Control 2870 
5 1 byte Rear Wiper Delay Control 2871 
6.3 3 bits Front Non-operator Washer Switch 2867 
6.6 3 bits Front Operator Washer Switch 2866 
7.6 3 bits Rear Washer Function 2868 
PGN 64976 Intake/Exhaust Conditions 2 IC2 
Intake/Exhaust Conditions 2 is a second PGN conveying this type of engine information. Also see PGN 65270. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 0.5 s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 208 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64976 (0x00FDD0) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Engine Air Filter 2 Differential Pressure 2809 
2 1 byte Engine Air Filter 3 Differential Pressure 2810 
3 1 byte Engine Air Filter 4 Differential Pressure 2811 
4 1 byte Engine Intake Manifold #2 Pressure 3562 
5 1 byte Engine Intake Manifold #1 Absolute Pressure 3563 
6-7 2 bytes Engine Intake Manifold #1 Absolute Pressure (High Resolution) 4817 
8 1 byte Engine Intake Manifold 2 Absolute Pressure 5422 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1050 -
PGN 64977 FMS-standard Interface Identity/Capabilities FMS 
Information which specifies the capabilities of the Fleet Management System (FMS) - standard interface device. This 
PGN typically is sourced from the network interconnect FMS - standard interface device. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 10 s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 209 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 7 
Parameter Group Number: 64977 (0x00FDD1) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits FMS-standard Diagnostics Supported 2804 
1.3 2 bits FMS-standard Requests Supported 2805 
2-5 4 bytes FMS-standard SW-version supported. 2806 
PGN 64978 ECU Performance EP
Message used to transfer ECU performance parameters. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 210 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64978 (0x00FDD2) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Keep-Alive Battery Consumption 2803 
3 1 byte Data Memory Usage 2802 
PGN 64979 Turbocharger Information 6 TCI6 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 211 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64979 (0x00FDD3) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Engine Turbocharger 1 Compressor Outlet Temperature 2629 
3-4 2 bytes Engine Turbocharger 2 Compressor Outlet Temperature 2799 
5-6 2 bytes Engine Turbocharger 3 Compressor Outlet Temperature 2800 
7-8 2 bytes Engine Turbocharger 4 Compressor Outlet Temperature 2801 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1051 -
PGN 64980 Cab Message 3 CM3 
Provides information from Cab mounted operator inputs. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: Every 10 s and on change of state but no faster than every 100 ms. Grandfathered 
definition for systems that implemented this message prior to July, 2010: On change 
or every 10 s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 212 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64980 (0x00FDD4) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 3 bits Transfer Case Selector Switch 2796 
2.1 2 bits Fifth Wheel Release Control 3314 
2.3 2 bits Fifth Wheel Release Control Security Lockout 3315 
3.1 2 bits Transmission Oil Level Request 3809 
PGN 64981 Electronic Engine Controller 5 EEC5 
Engine related parameters 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 213 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64981 (0x00FDD5) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Engine Turbocharger 1 Calculated Turbine Intake Temperature 2789 
3-4 2 bytes Engine Turbocharger 1 Calculated Turbine Outlet Temperature 2790 
5-6 2 bytes Engine Exhaust Gas Recirculation 1 (EGR1) Valve Control 2791 
7.1 2 bits Engine Variable Geometry Turbocharger (VGT) Air Control 
Shutoff Valve 
2792
7.3 2 bits Engine Fuel Control Control Mode 5323 
7.5 2 bits Engine Variable Geometry Turbocharger 1 Control Mode 5457 
8 1 byte Engine Variable Geometry Turbocharger (VGT) 1 Actuator 
Position
2795
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1052 -
PGN 64982 Basic Joystick Message 1 BJM1 
Used to transfer information about the measured status of the 1st 2 axes and up to 12 buttons of a joystick. Additional 
handle information is available in the Expanded Joystick Message. 
10-bit position parameters are broadcast over 2 bytes. The eight most significant bits are transmitted in the second byte, 
with the most significant bit at bit 8. The two least significant bits are transmitted in the first byte in bit positions 7 and 8, 
with the most significant of the two bits at bit 8. 
10-bit position SPN Location in PGN 
Bit 10 Byte n Bit 8 
Bit 9 Bit 7 
Bit 8 Bit 6 
Bit 7 Bit 5 
Bit 6 Bit 4 
Bit 5 Bit 3 
Bit 4 Bit 2 
Bit 3 Bit 1 
Bit 2 Byte (n-1) Bit 8 
Bit 1 Bit 7 
Transmission Repetition Rate: Every 100 ms and on change of state but no faster than every 20 ms. Grandfathered 
definition for systems that implemented this message prior to July, 2010: 100 ms or on 
change, not to exceed 20 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 214 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 3 
Parameter Group Number: 64982 (0x00FDD6) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits Joystick 1 X-Axis Neutral Position Status 2675 
1.3 2 bits Joystick 1 X-Axis Lever Left Negative Position Status 2670 
1.5 2 bits Joystick 1 X-Axis Lever Right Positive Position Status 2665 
1.7-2 10 bits Joystick 1 X-Axis Position 2660 
3.1 2 bits Joystick 1 Y-Axis Neutral Position Status 2676 
3.3 2 bits Joystick 1 Y-Axis Lever Back Negative Position Status 2671 
3.5 2 bits Joystick 1 Y-Axis Lever Forward Positive Position Status 2666 
3.7-4 10 bits Joystick 1 Y-Axis Position 2661 
5.5 2 bits Joystick 1 Y-Axis Detent Position Status 2681 
5.7 2 bits Joystick 1 X-Axis Detent Position Status 2680 
6.1 2 bits Joystick 1 Button 4 Pressed Status 2688 
6.3 2 bits Joystick 1 Button 3 Pressed Status 2687 
6.5 2 bits Joystick 1 Button 2 Pressed Status 2686 
6.7 2 bits Joystick 1 Button 1 Pressed Status 2685 
7.1 2 bits Joystick 1 Button 8 Pressed Status 2692 
7.3 2 bits Joystick 1 Button 7 Pressed Status 2691 
7.5 2 bits Joystick 1 Button 6 Pressed Status 2690 
7.7 2 bits Joystick 1 Button 5 Pressed Status 2689 
8.1 2 bits Joystick 1 Button 12 Pressed Status 2696 
8.3 2 bits Joystick 1 Button 11 Pressed Status 2695 
8.5 2 bits Joystick 1 Button 10 Pressed Status 2694 
8.7 2 bits Joystick 1 Button 9 Pressed Status 2693 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1053 -
PGN 64983 Extended Joystick Message 1 EJM1 
Used to transfer information about the measured status of three additional axes of a joystick and switches of the joystick 
grip or handle. The joystick axial motion information is available in the Basic Joystick Message. 
10-bit position parameters are broadcast over 2 bytes. The eight most significant bits are transmitted in the second byte, 
with the most significant bit at bit 8. The two least significant bits are transmitted in the first byte in bit positions 7 and 8, 
with the most significant of the two bits at bit 8. 
10-bit position SPN Location in PGN 
Bit 10 Byte n Bit 8 
Bit 9 Bit 7 
Bit 8 Bit 6 
Bit 7 Bit 5 
Bit 6 Bit 4 
Bit 5 Bit 3 
Bit 4 Bit 2 
Bit 3 Bit 1 
Bit 2 Byte (n-1) Bit 8 
Bit 1 Bit 7 
Note: The term Grip used here simply refers to another set of axes separate from the previously mentioned X and Y Axis. 
 This additional set of axes could in some cases be grip mounted sensors as opposed to the sensors mounted at the base 
of the handle. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: Every 100 ms and on change of state but no faster than every 20 ms. Grandfathered 
definition for systems that implemented this message prior to July, 2010: 100 ms or on 
change, not to exceed 20 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 215 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 3 
Parameter Group Number: 64983 (0x00FDD7) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits Joystick 1 Grip X-Axis Neutral Position Status 2677 
1.3 2 bits Joystick 1 Grip X-Axis Lever Left Negative Position Status 2672 
1.5 2 bits Joystick 1 Grip X-Axis Lever Right Positive Position Status 2667 
1.7-2 10 bits Joystick 1 Grip X-Axis Position 2662 
3.1 2 bits Joystick 1 Grip Y-Axis Neutral Position Status 2678 
3.3 2 bits Joystick 1 Grip Y-Axis Lever Back Negative Position Status 2673 
3.5 2 bits Joystick 1 Grip Y-Axis Lever Forward Positive Position Status 2668 
3.7-4 10 bits Joystick 1 Grip Y-Axis Position 2663 
5.1 2 bits Joystick 1 Theta-Axis Neutral Position Status 2679 
5.3 2 bits Joystick 1 Theta-Axis Counter Clockwise Negative Position 
Status
2674
5.5 2 bits Joystick 1 Theta-Axis Clockwise Positive Position Status 2669 
5.7-6 10 bits Joystick 1 Theta-Axis Position 2664 
7.3 2 bits Joystick 1 Theta-Axis Detent Position Status 2684 
7.5 2 bits Joystick 1 Grip Y-Axis Detent Position Status 2683 
7.7 2 bits Joystick 1 Grip X-Axis Detent Position Status 2682 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1054 -
PGN 64984 Basic Joystick Message 2 BJM2 
Used to transfer information about the measured status of the 1st 2 axes and up to 12 buttons of a joystick. Additional 
handle information is available in the Expanded Joystick Message. 
10-bit position parameters are broadcast over 2 bytes. The eight most significant bits are transmitted in the second byte, 
with the most significant bit at bit 8. The two least significant bits are transmitted in the first byte in bit positions 7 and 8, 
with the most significant of the two bits at bit 8. 
10-bit position SPN Location in PGN 
Bit 10 Byte n Bit 8 
Bit 9 Bit 7 
Bit 8 Bit 6 
Bit 7 Bit 5 
Bit 6 Bit 4 
Bit 5 Bit 3 
Bit 4 Bit 2 
Bit 3 Bit 1 
Bit 2 Byte (n-1) Bit 8 
Bit 1 Bit 7 
Transmission Repetition Rate: Every 100 ms and on change of state but no faster than every 20 ms. Grandfathered 
definition for systems that implemented this message prior to July, 2010: 100 ms or on 
change, not to exceed 20 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 216 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 3 
Parameter Group Number: 64984 (0x00FDD8) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits Joystick 2 X-Axis Neutral Position Status 2712 
1.3 2 bits Joystick 2 X-Axis Lever Left Negative Position Status 2707 
1.5 2 bits Joystick 2 X-Axis Lever Right Positive Position Status 2702 
1.7-2 10 bits Joystick 2 X-Axis Position 2697 
3.1 2 bits Joystick 2 Y-Axis Neutral Position Status 2713 
3.3 2 bits Joystick 2 Y-Axis Lever Back Negative Position Status 2708 
3.5 2 bits Joystick 2 Y-Axis Lever Forward Positive Position Status 2703 
3.7-4 10 bits Joystick 2 Y-Axis Position 2698 
5.5 2 bits Joystick 2 Y-Axis Detent Position Status 2718 
5.7 2 bits Joystick 2 X-Axis Detent Position Status 2717 
6.1 2 bits Joystick 2 Button 4 Pressed Status 2725 
6.3 2 bits Joystick 2 Button 3 Pressed Status 2724 
6.5 2 bits Joystick 2 Button 2 Pressed Status 2723 
6.7 2 bits Joystick 2 Button 1 Pressed Status 2722 
7.1 2 bits Joystick 2 Button 8 Pressed Status 2729 
7.3 2 bits Joystick 2 Button 7 Pressed Status 2728 
7.5 2 bits Joystick 2 Button 6 Pressed Status 2727 
7.7 2 bits Joystick 2 Button 5 Pressed Status 2726 
8.1 2 bits Joystick 2 Button 12 Pressed Status 2733 
8.3 2 bits Joystick 2 Button 11 Pressed Status 2732 
8.5 2 bits Joystick 2 Button 10 Pressed Status 2731 
8.7 2 bits Joystick 2 Button 9 Pressed Status 2730 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1055 -
PGN 64985 Extended Joystick Message 2 EJM2 
Used to transfer information about the measured status of three additional axes of a joystick and switches of the joystick 
grip or handle. The joystick axial motion information is available in the Basic Joystick Message. 
10-bit position parameters are broadcast over 2 bytes. The eight most significant bits are transmitted in the second byte, 
with the most significant bit at bit 8. The two least significant bits are transmitted in the first byte in bit positions 7 and 8, 
with the most significant of the two bits at bit 8. 
10-bit position SPN Location in PGN 
Bit 10 Byte n Bit 8 
Bit 9 Bit 7 
Bit 8 Bit 6 
Bit 7 Bit 5 
Bit 6 Bit 4 
Bit 5 Bit 3 
Bit 4 Bit 2 
Bit 3 Bit 1 
Bit 2 Byte (n-1) Bit 8 
Bit 1 Bit 7 
Note: The term Grip used here simply refers to another set of axes separate from the previously mentioned X and Y Axis. 
 This additional set of axes could in some cases be grip mounted sensors as opposed to the sensors mounted at the base 
of the handle. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: Every 100 ms and on change of state but no faster than every 20 ms. Grandfathered 
definition for systems that implemented this message prior to July, 2010: 100 ms or on 
change, not to exceed 20 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 217 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 3 
Parameter Group Number: 64985 (0x00FDD9) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits Joystick 2 Grip X-Axis Neutral Position Status 2714 
1.3 2 bits Joystick 2 Grip X-Axis Lever Left Negative Position Status 2709 
1.5 2 bits Joystick 2 Grip X-Axis Lever Right Positive Position Status 2704 
1.7-2 10 bits Joystick 2 Grip X-Axis Position 2699 
3.1 2 bits Joystick 2 Grip Y-Axis Neutral Position Status 2715 
3.3 2 bits Joystick 2 Grip Y-Axis Lever Back Negative Position Status 2710 
3.5 2 bits Joystick 2 Grip Y-Axis Lever Forward Positive Position Status 2705 
3.7-4 10 bits Joystick 2 Grip Y-Axis Position 2700 
5.1 2 bits Joystick 2 Theta-Axis Neutral Position Status 2716 
5.3 2 bits Joystick 2 Theta-Axis Counter Clockwise Negative Position 
Status
2711
5.5 2 bits Joystick 2 Theta-Axis Clockwise Positive Position Status 2706 
5.7-6 10 bits Joystick 2 Theta-Axis Position 2701 
7.3 2 bits Joystick 2 Theta-Axis Detent Position Status 2721 
7.5 2 bits Joystick 2 Grip Y-Axis Detent Position Status 2720 
7.7 2 bits Joystick 2 Grip X-Axis Detent Position Status 2719 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1056 -
PGN 64986 Basic Joystick Message 3 BJM3 
Used to transfer information about the measured status of the 1st 2 axes and up to 12 buttons of a joystick. Additional 
handle information is available in the Expanded Joystick Message. 
10-bit position parameters are broadcast over 2 bytes. The eight most significant bits are transmitted in the second byte, 
with the most significant bit at bit 8. The two least significant bits are transmitted in the first byte in bit positions 7 and 8, 
with the most significant of the two bits at bit 8. 
10-bit position SPN Location in PGN 
Bit 10 Byte n Bit 8 
Bit 9 Bit 7 
Bit 8 Bit 6 
Bit 7 Bit 5 
Bit 6 Bit 4 
Bit 5 Bit 3 
Bit 4 Bit 2 
Bit 3 Bit 1 
Bit 2 Byte (n-1) Bit 8 
Bit 1 Bit 7 
Transmission Repetition Rate: Every 100 ms and on change of state but no faster than every 20 ms. Grandfathered 
definition for systems that implemented this message prior to July, 2010: 100 ms or on 
change, not to exceed 20 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 218 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 3 
Parameter Group Number: 64986 (0x00FDDA) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits Joystick 3 X-Axis Neutral Position Status 2749 
1.3 2 bits Joystick 3 X-Axis Lever Left Negative Position Status 2744 
1.5 2 bits Joystick 3 X-Axis Lever Right Positive Position Status 2739 
1.7-2 10 bits Joystick 3 X-Axis Position 2734 
3.1 2 bits Joystick 3 Y-Axis Neutral Position Status 2750 
3.3 2 bits Joystick 3 Y-Axis Lever Back Negative Position Status 2745 
3.5 2 bits Joystick 3 Y-Axis Lever Forward Positive Position Status 2740 
3.7-4 10 bits Joystick 3 Y-Axis Position 2735 
5.5 2 bits Joystick 3 Y-Axis Detent Position Status 2755 
5.7 2 bits Joystick 3 X-Axis Detent Position Status 2754 
6.1 2 bits Joystick 3 Button 4 Pressed Status 2762 
6.3 2 bits Joystick 3 Button 3 Pressed Status 2761 
6.5 2 bits Joystick 3 Button 2 Pressed Status 2760 
6.7 2 bits Joystick 3 Button 1 Pressed Status 2759 
7.1 2 bits Joystick 3 Button 8 Pressed Status 2766 
7.3 2 bits Joystick 3 Button 7 Pressed Status 2765 
7.5 2 bits Joystick 3 Button 6 Pressed Status 2764 
7.7 2 bits Joystick 3 Button 5 Pressed Status 2763 
8.1 2 bits Joystick 3 Button 12 Pressed Status 2770 
8.3 2 bits Joystick 3 Button 11 Pressed Status 2769 
8.5 2 bits Joystick 3 Button 10 Pressed Status 2768 
8.7 2 bits Joystick 3 Button 9 Pressed Status 2767 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1057 -
PGN 64987 Extended Joystick Message 3 EJM3 
Used to transfer information about the measured status of three additional axes of a joystick and switches of the joystick 
grip or handle. The joystick axial motion information is available in the Basic Joystick Message. 
10-bit position parameters are broadcast over 2 bytes. The eight most significant bits are transmitted in the second byte, 
with the most significant bit at bit 8. The two least significant bits are transmitted in the first byte in bit positions 7 and 8, 
with the most significant of the two bits at bit 8. 
10-bit position SPN Location in PGN 
Bit 10 Byte n Bit 8 
Bit 9 Bit 7 
Bit 8 Bit 6 
Bit 7 Bit 5 
Bit 6 Bit 4 
Bit 5 Bit 3 
Bit 4 Bit 2 
Bit 3 Bit 1 
Bit 2 Byte (n-1) Bit 8 
Bit 1 Bit 7 
Note: The term Grip used here simply refers to another set of axes separate from the previously mentioned X and Y Axis. 
 This additional set of axes could in some cases be grip mounted sensors as opposed to the sensors mounted at the base 
of the handle. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: Every 100 ms and on change of state but no faster than every 20 ms. Grandfathered 
definition for systems that implemented this message prior to July, 2010: 100 ms or on 
change, not to exceed 20 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 219 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 3 
Parameter Group Number: 64987 (0x00FDDB) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits Joystick 3 Grip X-Axis Neutral Position Status 2751 
1.3 2 bits Joystick 3 Grip X-Axis Lever Left Negative Position Status 2746 
1.5 2 bits Joystick 3 Grip X-Axis Lever Right Positive Position Status 2741 
1.7-2 10 bits Joystick 3 Grip X-Axis Position 2736 
3.1 2 bits Joystick 3 Grip Y-Axis Neutral Position Status 2752 
3.3 2 bits Joystick 3 Grip Y-Axis Lever Back Negative Position Status 2747 
3.5 2 bits Joystick 3 Grip Y-Axis Lever Forward Positive Position Status 2742 
3.7-4 10 bits Joystick 3 Grip Y-Axis Position 2737 
5.1 2 bits Joystick 3 Theta-Axis Neutral Position Status 2753 
5.3 2 bits Joystick 3 Theta-Axis Counter Clockwise Negative Position 
Status
2748
5.5 2 bits Joystick 3 Theta-Axis Clockwise Positive Position Status 2743 
5.7-6 10 bits Joystick 3 Theta-Axis Position 2738 
7.3 2 bits Joystick 3 Theta-Axis Detent Position Status 2758 
7.5 2 bits Joystick 3 Grip Y-Axis Detent Position Status 2757 
7.7 2 bits Joystick 3 Grip X-Axis Detent Position Status 2756 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1058 -
PGN 64988 Marine Control Information MCI 
This messages contains marine vessel control information for the engine 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 220 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64988 (0x00FDDC) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 4 bits Engine Throttle Synchronization Mode Status 2615 
1.5 2 bits Trolling Mode Status 2616 
1.7 2 bits Slow Vessel Mode Status 2617 
PGN 64991 Front Wheel Drive Status FWD 
Front wheel drive ECU information 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 0.5 s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 223 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 7 
Parameter Group Number: 64991 (0x00FDDF) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits Front Wheel Drive Actuator Status 2612 
(R) PGN 64992 Ambient Conditions 2 AMB2 
This message contains measurement and configuration information about the vehicle ambient conditions. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 224 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64992 (0x00FDE0) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Solar Intensity Percent 2610 
2 1 byte Solar Sensor Maximum 2611 
3-4 2 bytes Specific Humidity 4490 
5-6 2 bytes Calculated Ambient Air Temperature 5581 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1059 -
PGN 64993 Cab A/C Climate System Information CACI 
This message contains measurement and condition information from cab air conditioning components. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 225 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64993 (0x00FDE1) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Cab A/C Refrigerant Compressor Outlet Pressure 2609 
PGN 64994 Supply Pressure Demand SPR 
Used for controlling the supply pressure. Often used to raise the pressure of a supply pressure circuit in situations where 
more pneumatic energy is needed. 
This message is the setpoint for the PGN 65198 message. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 s, when active 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 226 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64994 (0x00FDE2) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Pneumatic Supply Pressure Request 2603 
2 1 byte Parking and/or Trailer Air Pressure Request 2604 
3 1 byte Service Brake Air Pressure Request, Circuit #1 2605 
4 1 byte Service Brake Air Pressure Request, Circuit #2 2606 
5 1 byte Auxiliary Equipment Supply Pressure Request 2607 
6 1 byte Air Suspension Supply Pressure Request 2608 
PGN 64995 Equipment Operation and Control EOAC 
Parameters related to the operation and controls for equipment 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 250 mS 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 227 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64995 (0x00FDE3) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Travel Velocity Control Position 2601 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1060 -
PGN 64996 Equipment Performance Data EPD 
Parameters related to the performance characteristics of equipment 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 500 mS 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 228 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64996 (0x00FDE4) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Payload Percentage 2600 
PGN 64997 Maximum Vehicle Speed Limit Status MVS 
Reports the possible maximum vehicle speed limits, one through seven, and the applied maximum vehicle speed limit. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 229 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 64997 (0x00FDE5) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Maximum Vehicle Speed Limit 1 2588 
2 1 byte Maximum Vehicle Speed Limit 2 2589 
3 1 byte Maximum Vehicle Speed Limit 3 2590 
4 1 byte Maximum Vehicle Speed Limit 4 2591 
5 1 byte Maximum Vehicle Speed Limit 5 2592 
6 1 byte Maximum Vehicle Speed Limit 6 2593 
7 1 byte Maximum Vehicle Speed Limit 7 2594 
8 1 byte Applied Vehicle Speed Limit 2595 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1061 -
PGN 64998 Hydraulic Braking System HBS 
Used for information on a hydraulic brake system 
As an example: this PGN may be used for a two circuit hydraulic brake system with separate circuits for front and rear 
axle. The hydraulic energy is supplied via two independent electrically driven pumps. The energy is stored in gas filled 
hydraulic accumulators also separated for each circuit. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 100 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 253 
PDU Specific: 230 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 3 
Parameter Group Number: 64998 (0x00FDE6) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Hydraulic Brake Pressure Circuit 1 2580 
2 1 byte Hydraulic Brake Pressure Circuit 2 2581 
3.1 2 bits Hydraulic Brake Pressure Warning State Circuit 1 2584 
3.3 2 bits Hydraulic Brake Pressure Warning State Circuit 2 2585 
3.5 2 bits Hydraulic Brake Pressure Supply State Circuit 1 2582 
3.7 2 bits Hydraulic Brake Pressure Supply State Circuit 2 2583 
4.1 2 bits Hydraulic Brake System Audible Warning Command 2930 
4.3 2 bits Hydraulic Brake Fluid Level Switch 2931 
PGN 65031 Exhaust Temperature ET 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 0.5 s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 7 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65031 (0x00FE07) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Engine Exhaust Gas Temperature - Right Manifold 2433 
3-4 2 bytes Engine Exhaust Gas Temperature - Left Manifold 2434 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1062 -
PGN 65088 Lighting Data LD
This lighting message is a response to the request for lighting data in the lighting command message. Each lighting 
controller on the tractor and attached implements must transmit this message to the Tractor ECU when requested. The 
tractor will use this information to determine which lighting systems are functioning. Lighting controllers that have lamp 
sensing capability will also report failed light bulbs. This is a legal requirement in many areas. 
See PGN 65089 for the lighting command message. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: As requested. 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 64 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65088 (0x00FE40) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits Running Light 2404 
1.3 2 bits Alternate Beam Head Light Data 2352 
1.5 2 bits Low Beam Head Light Data 2350 
1.7 2 bits High Beam Head Light Data 2348 
2.1 2 bits Tractor Front Fog Lights 2388 
2.3 2 bits Rotating Beacon Light 2386 
2.5 2 bits Right Turn Signal Lights 2370 
2.7 2 bits Left Turn Signal Lights 2368 
3.1 2 bits Back Up Light and Alarm Horn 2392 
3.3 2 bits Center Stop Light 2376 
3.5 2 bits Right Stop Light 2374 
3.7 2 bits Left Stop Light 2372 
4.1 2 bits Implement Clearance Light 2384 
4.3 2 bits Tractor Clearance Light 2382 
4.5 2 bits Implement Marker Light 2380 
4.7 2 bits Tractor Marker Light 2378 
5.1 2 bits Rear Fog Lights 2390 
5.3 2 bits Tractor Underside Mounted Work Lights 2358 
5.5 2 bits Tractor Rear Low Mounted Work Lights 2360 
5.7 2 bits Tractor Rear High Mounted Work Lights 2362 
6.1 2 bits Tractor Side Low Mounted Work Lights 2364 
6.3 2 bits Tractor Side High Mounted Work Lights 2366 
6.5 2 bits Tractor Front Low Mounted Work Lights 2354 
6.7 2 bits Tractor Front High Mounted Work Lights 2356 
7.1 2 bits Implement OEM Option 2 Light 2398 
7.3 2 bits Implement OEM Option 1 Light 2396 
7.5 2 bits Implement Right Facing Work Light 2407 
7.7 2 bits Implement Left Forward Work Light 2598 
8.3 2 bits Implement Right Forward Work Light 2402 
8.5 2 bits Implement Left Facing Work Light 2400 
8.7 2 bits Implement Rear Work Light 2394 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1063 -
(R) PGN 65089 Lighting Command LCMD 
The lighting command message has been defined as a global message from the tractor to all lighting controllers on the 
tractor and attached implements. Separate messages are provided for tractor and implement work and driving lights.
Additional commands have been provided for 3 optional lights on implements to meet the needs of speciaity equipment.
Common marking and signaling messages are provided. 
This message is used to control the state of all lighting functions. The lighting command message shall be sent on each 
change of state of a lamp. The state values indicate the lights is to be turned ON or OFF. Flashing is accomplished by 
sending the lighting message with the state alternately ON or OFF. A lighting command message must be sent at least 
once per second. It is the responsibility of the tractor designer to provide the correct combination of lamp commands to 
meet local legislative directives. 
See PGN 65088 for the message to provide feedback for this command message. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: Every 1 s and on change of state but no faster than every 100 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 65 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 3 
Parameter Group Number: 65089 (0x00FE41) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits Running Light Command 2403 
1.3 2 bits Alternate Beam Head Light Command 2351 
1.5 2 bits Low Beam Head Light Command 2349 
1.7 2 bits High Beam Head Light Command 2347 
2.1 2 bits Tractor Front Fog Lights Command 2387 
2.3 2 bits Rotating Beacon Light Command 2385 
2.5 2 bits Right Turn Signal Lights Command 2369 
2.7 2 bits Left Turn Signal Lights Command 2367 
3.1 2 bits Back Up Light and Alarm Horn Command 2391 
3.3 2 bits Center Stop Light Command 2375 
3.5 2 bits Right Stop Light Command 2373 
3.7 2 bits Left Stop Light Command 2371 
4.1 2 bits Implement Clearance Light Command 2383 
4.3 2 bits Tractor Clearance Light Command 2381 
4.5 2 bits Implement Marker Light Command 2379 
4.7 2 bits Tractor Marker Light Command 2377 
5.1 2 bits Rear Fog Light Command 2389 
5.3 2 bits Tractor Underside Mounted Work Lights Command 2357 
5.5 2 bits Tractor Rear Low Mounted Work Lights Command 2359 
5.7 2 bits Tractor Rear High Mounted Work Lights Command 2361 
6.1 2 bits Tractor Side Low Mounted Work Lights Command 2363 
6.3 2 bits Tractor Side High Mounted Work Lights Command 2365 
6.5 2 bits Tractor Front Low Mounted Work Lights Command 2353 
6.7 2 bits Tractor Front High Mounted Work Lights Command 2355 
7.1 2 bits Implement OEM Option 2 Light Command 2397 
7.3 2 bits Implement OEM Option 1 Light Command 2395 
7.5 2 bits Implement Right Facing Work Light Command 2406 
7.7 2 bits Implement Left Forward Work Light Command 2597 
8.1 2 bits Lighting Data Request Command 2393 
8.3 2 bits Implement Right Forward Work Light Command 2401 
8.5 2 bits Implement Left Facing Work Light Command 2399 
8.7 2 bits Implement Rear Work Light Command 2405 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1064 -
PGN 65098 Electronic Transmission Controller 7 ETC7 
Transmission status information from the transmission controller to network. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 100 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 74 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65098 (0x00FE4A) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits Transmission Current Range Display Blank State 4176 
1.3 2 bits Transmission Service Indicator 4178 
1.5 2 bits Transmission Requested Range Display Blank State 1850 
1.7 2 bits Transmission Requested Range Display Flash State 1849 
2.1 2 bits Transmission Ready for Brake Release 3086 
2.3 2 bits Active Shift Console Indicator 2945 
2.5 2 bits Transmission Engine Crank Enable 2900 
2.7 2 bits Transmission Shift Inhibit Indicator 1851 
3.1 2 bits Transmission Mode 4 Indicator 2539 
3.3 2 bits Transmission Mode 3 Indicator 2538 
3.5 2 bits Transmission Mode 2 Indicator 2537 
3.7 2 bits Transmission Mode 1 Indicator 2536 
4 1 byte Transmission Requested Gear Feedback 3289 
5.1 2 bits Transmission Mode 5 Indicator 4250 
5.3 2 bits Transmission Mode 6 Indicator 4251 
5.5 2 bits Transmission Mode 7 Indicator 4252 
5.7 2 bits Transmission Mode 8 Indicator 4253 
6.1 2 bits Transmission Reverse Gear Shift Inhibit Status 4261 
6.3 2 bits Transmission Warning Indicator 5344 
PGN 65099 Transmission Configuration 2 TCFG2 
Contains transmission configuration information. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request or sender may transmit every 5 seconds until acknowledged by reception 
of the engine configuration message PGN 65251 SPN 1846. 
Data Length: Variable 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 75 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65099 (0x00FE4B) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Transmission Torque Limit 1845 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1065 -
PGN 65100 Military Lighting Command ML 
The message contains parameters that control military specific lights. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 500ms or upon state change, but not faster than 100 ms. 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 76 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65100 (0x00FE4C) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits Rear Black Out Marker Select 1840 
1.3 2 bits Front Black Out Marker Lamp Select 1839 
1.5 2 bits Convoy Lamp Select 1838 
1.7 2 bits Convoy Driving Lamp Select 1837 
3.7 2 bits Black Out Brake/Stop Lamp Select 1841 
4.1 2 bits Night Vision Illuminator Select 1843 
4.7 2 bits Black Out Work Lamp Select 1842 
8 1 byte Operators Black Out Intensity Selection 1844 
PGN 65101 Total Averaged Information TAVG 
Averages of information accumulated over the life of the engine 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 77 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 7 
Parameter Group Number: 65101 (0x00FE4D) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Engine Total Average Fuel Rate 1834 
3-4 2 bytes Engine Total Average Fuel Economy 1835 
PGN 65102 Door Control 1 DC1
Used for door information. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 100 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 78 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65102 (0x00FE4E) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 4 bits Position of doors 1821 
1.5 2 bits Ramp / Wheel Chair Lift Position 1820 
1.7 2 bits Status 2 of doors 3411 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1066 -
(R) PGN 65103 Vehicle Dynamic Stability Control 1 VDC1 
Contains information which relates to the VDC system status. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 100ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 79 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65103 (0x00FE4F) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits VDC Information Signal 1813 
1.3 2 bits VDC Fully Operational 1814 
1.5 2 bits VDC brake light request 1815 
2.1 2 bits ROP Engine Control active 1816 
2.3 2 bits ROP Brake Control active 1818 
2.5 2 bits YC Engine Control active 1817 
2.7 2 bits YC Brake Control active 1819 
3.1 2 bits Trailer - Vehicle Dynamic Control Active 5624 
PGN 65104 Battery Temperature BT1 
Contains battery temperature information. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 80 PGN Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 65104 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65104 (0x00FE50) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Battery 1 Temperature 1800 
2 1 byte Battery 2 Temperature 1801 
PGN 65105 Adaptive Cruise Control, Operator Input ACC2 
The operator requested characteristics for the ACC systems operation. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 250 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 81 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65105 (0x00FE51) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits ACC usage demand 5023 
1.6 3 bits Requested ACC Distance Mode 1799 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1067 -
PGN 65106 Vehicle Electrical Power #3 VEP3 
This contains high resolution/range parameters reported from the alternator or power generation components. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 82 PGN Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 65104 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65106 (0x00FE52) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Alternator Current (High Range/Resolution) 1795 
3-4 2 bytes Net Battery Current (High Range/Resolution) 2579 
PGN 65107 Retarder Continuous Torque & Speed Limit RTC1 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 5 s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 83 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65107 (0x00FE53) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Low Limit Threshold for Maximum RPM from Retarder 1776 
2 1 byte High Limit Threshold for Minimum Continuous RPM from 
Retarder
1777
3 1 byte Low Limit Threshold for Maximum Torque from Retarder 1778 
4 1 byte High Limit Threshold for Minimum Continuous Torque from 
Retarder
1779
5 1 byte Maximum Continuous Retarder Speed 1780 
6 1 byte Minimum Continuous Retarder Speed 1781 
7 1 byte Maximum Continuous Retarder Torque 1782 
8 1 byte Minimum Continuous Retarder Torque 1783 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1068 -
PGN 65108 Engine Continuous Torque & Speed Limit ECT1 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 5 s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 84 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65108 (0x00FE54) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Engine Low Limit Threshold for Maximum RPM from Engine 1768 
2 1 byte Engine High Limit Threshold for Minimum Continuous Engine 
RPM
1769
3 1 byte Engine Low Limit Threshold for Maximum Torque from Engine 1770 
4 1 byte Engine High Limit Threshold for Minimum Continuous Torque 
from Engine 
1771
5 1 byte Engine Maximum Continuous RPM 1772 
6 1 byte Engine Minimum Continuous RPM 1773 
7 1 byte Engine Maximum Continuous Torque 1774 
8 1 byte Engine Minimum Continuous Torque 1775 
PGN 65109 Gaseous Fuel Properties GFD 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 85 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65109 (0x00FE55) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Specific Heat Ratio 1767 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1069 -
(R) PGN 65110 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 1 Information AT1T1I 
Contains information on various tank levels 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 86 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65110 (0x00FE56) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 1 Level 1761 
2 1 byte Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 1 Temperature 3031 
3-4 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank Level 2 3517 
5.1 5 bits Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank Level Preliminary 
FMI
3532
5.6 3 bits Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 1 Low Level 
Indicator
5245
6.1 5 bits Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 1 Temperature 
Preliminary FMI 
4365
6.6 3 bits Aftertreatment SCR Operator Inducement Severity 5246 
7 1 byte Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 1 Heater 3363 
8.1 5 bits Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 1 Heater 
Preliminary FMI 
4366
PGN 65111 Air Suspension Control 5 ASC5 
Used for damper stiffness information 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 100 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 87 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 3 
Parameter Group Number: 65111 (0x00FE57) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Damper Stiffness Front Axle 1729 
2 1 byte Damper Stiffness Rear Axle 1730 
3 1 byte Damper Stiffness Lift / Tag Axle 1731 
4.1 2 bits Electronic Shock Absorber Control Mode - Front Axle 1833 
4.3 2 bits Electronic Shock Absorber Control Mode - Rear Axle 1832 
4.5 2 bits Electronic Shock Absorber Control Mode - Lift/Tag Axle 1831 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1070 -
PGN 65112 Air Suspension Control 4 ASC4 
Used for bellow pressure information 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 100 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 88 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65112 (0x00FE58) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Bellow Pressure Front Axle Left 1725 
3-4 2 bytes Bellow Pressure Front Axle Right 1726 
5-6 2 bytes Bellow Pressure Rear Axle Left 1727 
7-8 2 bytes Bellow Pressure Rear Axle Right 1728 
PGN 65113 Air Suspension Control 3 ASC3 
Used for height information 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 100 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 89 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65113 (0x00FE59) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Relative Level Front Axle Left 1721 
3-4 2 bytes Relative Level Front Axle Right 1722 
5-6 2 bytes Relative Level Rear Axle Left 1724 
7-8 2 bytes Relative Level Rear Axle Right 1723 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1071 -
PGN 65114 Air Suspension Control 1 ASC1 
Used for suspension control information 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 100 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 90 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 3 
Parameter Group Number: 65114 (0x00FE5A) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 4 bits Nominal Level Front Axle 1734 
1.5 4 bits Nominal Level Rear Axle 1733 
2.1 2 bits Below Nominal Level Front Axle 1738 
2.3 2 bits Below Nominal Level Rear Axle 1754 
2.5 2 bits Above Nominal Level Front Axle 1737 
2.7 2 bits Above Nominal Level Rear Axle 1736 
3.1 2 bits Lowering Control Mode Front Axle 1740 
3.3 2 bits Lowering Control Mode Rear Axle 1755 
3.5 2 bits Lifting Control Mode Front Axle 1739 
3.7 2 bits Lifting Control Mode Rear Axle 1756 
4.1 4 bits Kneeling Information 1742 
4.5 4 bits Level Control Mode 1741 
5.1 2 bits Security Device 1746 
5.3 2 bits Vehicle Motion Inhibit 1745 
5.5 2 bits Door Release 1744 
5.7 2 bits Lift Axle 1 Position 1743 
6.1 2 bits Front Axle in Bumper Range 1824 
6.3 2 bits Rear Axle in Bumper Range 1823 
6.7 2 bits Lift Axle 2 Position 1822 
7.1 2 bits Suspension Remote Control 1 1826 
7.3 2 bits Suspension Remote control 2 1825 
7.5 2 bits Allow Level Control During Braking Status 5294 
7.7 2 bits Speed Dependant Level Control Status 5296 
8.1 4 bits Suspension Control Refusal Information 1827 
8.5 4 bits Memory level 5432 
PGN 65115 Forward Lane Image FLI2 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 100 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 91 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65115 (0x00FE5B) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.3 2 bits Lane Tracking Status Right Side 1711 
1.5 2 bits Lane Tracking Status Left Side 1710 
1.7 2 bits Lane Departure Indication Enable Status 1702 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1072 -
PGN 65126 Battery Main Switch Information BM 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 102 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65126 (0x00FE66) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits Battery Main Switch Hold State 1681 
PGN 65127 Climate Control Configuration CCC 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 103 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65127 (0x00FE67) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Auxiliary Heater Maximum Output Power 1690 
PGN 65128 Vehicle Fluids VF
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 104 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65128 (0x00FE68) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Hydraulic Temperature 1638 
2.1 2 bits Hydraulic Oil Filter Restriction Switch 1713 
2.3 2 bits Winch Oil Pressure Switch 1857 
3 1 byte Hydraulic Oil Level 2602 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1073 -
PGN 65129 Engine Temperature 3 ET3 
This parameter group is used to transmit high resolution engine temperatures for control purposes. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 105 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65129 (0x00FE69) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Engine Intake Manifold 1 Air Temperature (High Resolution) 1636 
3-4 2 bytes Engine Coolant Temperature (High Resolution) 1637 
5-6 2 bytes Engine Intake Valve Actuation System Oil Temperature 2986 
7-8 2 bytes Engine Charge Air Cooler 1 Outlet Temperature 2630 
PGN 65130 Engine Fuel/lube systems EFS 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 0.5 s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 106 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65130 (0x00FE6A) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Engine Oil Level Remote Reservoir 1380 
2 1 byte Engine Fuel Supply Pump Intake Pressure 1381 
3 1 byte Engine Fuel Filter (suction side) Differential Pressure 1382 
4 1 byte Engine Waste Oil Reservoir Level 3548 
5 1 byte Engine Oil-Filter Outlet Pressure 3549 
6.1 2 bits Engine Oil Priming Pump Switch 3550 
6.3 2 bits Engine Oil Priming State 3551 
6.5 2 bits Engine Oil Pre-Heated State 3552 
6.7 2 bits Engine Coolant Pre-heated State 3553 
7.1 3 bits Engine Ventilation Status 3554 
7.4 2 bits Fuel Pump Primer Status 4083 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1074 -
PGN 65131 Driver's Identification DI 
Field:
a Driver 1 Identification 
Delimiter (ASCII “*”) 
b Driver 2 Identification 
Delimiter (ASCII “*”) 
NOTE - If only driver card 1 is present, only the parameter driver 1 identification and two delimiters shall be transmitted. If
only driver card 2 is present, a delimiter followed by parameter driver 2 identification and the second delimiter shall be 
transmitted. If no driver cards are present, only the two delimiters shall be sent. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: Variable 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 107 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65131 (0x00FE6B) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
a Variable - up to 
1728 bytes 
followed by an "*" 
delimiter
Driver 1 identification 1625 
b Variable - up to 
1728 bytes 
followed by an "*" 
delimiter
Driver 2 identification 1626 
PGN 65132 Tachograph TCO1
Transmission Repetition Rate: 50 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 108 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 3 
Parameter Group Number: 65132 (0x00FE6C) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 3 bits Driver 1 working state 1612 
1.4 3 bits Driver 2 working state 1613 
1.7 2 bits Vehicle motion 1611 
2.1 4 bits Driver 1 Time Related States 1617 
2.5 2 bits Driver card, driver 1 1615 
2.7 2 bits Vehicle Overspeed 1614 
3.1 4 bits Driver 2 Time Related States 1618 
3.5 2 bits Driver card, driver 2 1616 
4.1 2 bits System event 1622 
4.3 2 bits Handling information 1621 
4.5 2 bits Tachograph performance 1620 
4.7 2 bits Direction indicator 1619 
5-6 2 bytes Tachograph output shaft speed 1623 
7-8 2 bytes Tachograph vehicle speed 1624 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1075 -
PGN 65133 Heater Information HTR 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 109 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65133 (0x00FE6D) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Auxiliary Heater Output Coolant Temperature 1687 
2 1 byte Auxiliary Heater Input Air Temperature 1688 
3 1 byte Auxiliary Heater Output Power Percent 1689 
4.1 4 bits Auxiliary Heater Mode 1677 
5.1 2 bits Auxiliary Heater Water Pump Status 1676 
5.3 2 bits Cab Ventilation 1678 
5.5 2 bits Engine Heating Zone 1679 
5.7 2 bits Cab Heating Zone 1680 
PGN 65134 High Resolution Wheel Speed HRW 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 20 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 110 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 2 
Parameter Group Number: 65134 (0x00FE6E) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Front Axle, Left Wheel Speed 1592 
3-4 2 bytes Front axle, right wheel speed 1593 
5-6 2 bytes Rear axle, left wheel speed 1594 
7-8 2 bytes Rear axle, right wheel speed 1595 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1076 -
PGN 65135 Adaptive Cruise Control 1 ACC1 
NOTE—The ACC1 message is required whenever the engine is running and ACC is powered on and not 
faulted. The timeout for ACC1 message will be between 2.5 times to 5 times the update rate. 
The ACC1 message is intended primarily for engines and driver display units. The receiving device 
should identify the ACC device based on ACC function value of 32 (headway controller) or source 
address of 42 (headway controller). 
In the event that the engine is running, the ACC is installed and the ACC1 message is not present, the 
engine will disable cruise control and return to non-cruise mode; also, the driver display unit will notify 
the driver that ACC operation is no longer available. In addition to the ACC1 timeout, engine cruise 
control will also be disabled if parameter "Adaptive Cruise Control State" in ACC1 is 110b (ACC disabled 
or in error). In some cases, it may be possible for the driver to restart cruise control (without ACC 
capability) during ACC/J1939 fault by performing a reset function. See Figure PGN65135_A. 
It is possible that engines and driver display units may require calibration settings in order to know if the 
present vehicle configuration includes an ACC system or not. A calibration setting may also be needed 
for defining the driver reset function. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 100ms or upon state change, but not faster than 20 ms. 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 111 PGN Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 65135 
Default Priority: 4 
Parameter Group Number: 65135 (0x00FE6F) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Speed of forward vehicle 1586 
2 1 byte Distance to forward vehicle 1587 
3 1 byte Adaptive Cruise Control Set Speed 1588 
4.1 3 bits Adaptive Cruise Control Mode 1590 
4.4 3 bits Adaptive cruise control set distance mode 1589 
5-6 2 bytes Road curvature 1591 
7.1 2 bits ACC Target Detected 1798 
7.3 2 bits ACC System Shutoff Warning 1797 
7.5 2 bits ACC Distance Alert Signal 1796 
7.7 2 bits Forward Collision Warning 5022 
PGN 65136 Combination Vehicle Weight CVW 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: Variable 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 112 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65136 (0x00FE70) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Powered Vehicle Weight 1585 
3-4 2 bytes Gross Combination Vehicle Weight 1760 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1077 -
PGN 65137 Laser Tracer Position LTP 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 50 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 113 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 3 
Parameter Group Number: 65137 (0x00FE71) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Laser Tracer Target Deviation 1579 
3-4 2 bytes Laser Tracer Vertical Distance 1580 
5 1 byte Laser Tracer Horizontal Deviation 1581 
6 8 bits LED Display Data #2 1582 
7 8 bits Laser Tracer Information 1583 
PGN 65138 Laser Leveling System Blade Control LBC 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 50 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 114 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 3 
Parameter Group Number: 65138 (0x00FE72) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Blade Duration and Direction 1577 
3 8 bits Blade Control Mode 1578 
4.1 4 bits Blade Control Mode - Left 5407 
4.5 4 bits Blade Control Mode - Right 5408 
5.1 2 bits Land Leveling System Enable Status 5409 
PGN 65139 Laser Receiver Mast Position LMP 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 50 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 115 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 3 
Parameter Group Number: 65139 (0x00FE73) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Mast Position 1576 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1078 -
PGN 65140 Modify Leveling System Control Set Point LSP 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 50 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 116 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 3 
Parameter Group Number: 65140 (0x00FE74) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Modify Leveling System Set Point 1575 
3-6 4 bytes Blade Height Set Point - High Resolution 1759 
PGN 65141 Laser Leveling System Vertical Deviation LVD 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 50 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 117 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 3 
Parameter Group Number: 65141 (0x00FE75) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Laser Strike Vertical Deviation 1574 
3 1 byte Laser Receiver Type 2576 
4-5 2 bytes Laser Strike Data Latency 2793 
6-7 2 bytes Absolute Laser Strike Position 2794 
PGN 65142 Laser Leveling System Vertical Position Display Data LVDD 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 100 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 118 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 4 
Parameter Group Number: 65142 (0x00FE76) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 8 bits LED Display Data #1 1573 
2.1 4 bits LED Display Mode Control 1805 
2.5 4 bits LED Display Deadband Control 1806 
3.1 4 bits LED Pattern Control 2578 
3.5 4 bits Display Deadbands 2577 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1079 -
PGN 65143 Auxiliary Pressures AP
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 119 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 7 
Parameter Group Number: 65143 (0x00FE77) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Auxiliary Vacuum Pressure Reading 136 
3-4 2 bytes Auxiliary Gage Pressure Reading 1 137 
5-6 2 bytes Auxiliary Absolute Pressure Reading 138 
PGN 65144 Tire Pressure Control Unit Mode and Status TP1 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 120 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 7 
Parameter Group Number: 65144 (0x00FE78) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Tire Pressure Check Interval 39 
2.1 4 bits Steer Channel Mode 1466 
3.1 4 bits Trailer/tag Channel Mode 1467 
3.5 4 bits Drive Channel Mode 1468 
4.1 2 bits PCU Drive Solenoid Status 1469 
4.3 2 bits PCU Steer Solenoid Status 1470 
4.5 2 bits Tire Pressure Supply Switch Status 1471 
5.1 2 bits PCU Deflate Solenoid Status 1472 
5.3 2 bits PCU Control Solenoid Status 1473 
5.5 2 bits PCU Supply Solenoid Status 1474 
5.7 2 bits PCU Trailer, Tag or Push Solenoid Status 1475 
PGN 65145 Tire Pressure Control Unit Target Pressures TP2 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 121 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 7 
Parameter Group Number: 65145 (0x00FE79) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Trailer, Tag Or Push Channel Tire Pressure Target 141 
3-4 2 bytes Drive Channel Tire Pressure Target 142 
5-6 2 bytes Steer Channel Tire Pressure Target 143 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1080 -
PGN 65146 Tire Pressure Control Unit Current Pressures TP3 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 122 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 7 
Parameter Group Number: 65146 (0x00FE7A) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Trailer, Tag Or Push Channel Tire Pressure 144 
3-4 2 bytes Drive Channel Tire Pressure 145 
5-6 2 bytes Steer Channel Tire Pressure 146 
PGN 65147 Combustion Time 1 CT1 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 123 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 7 
Parameter Group Number: 65147 (0x00FE7B) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Engine Cylinder #1 Combustion Time 1444 
3-4 2 bytes Engine Cylinder #2 Combustion Time 1445 
5-6 2 bytes Engine Cylinder #3 Combustion Time 1446 
7-8 2 bytes Engine Cylinder #4 Combustion Time 1447 
PGN 65148 Combustion Time 2 CT2 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 124 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 7 
Parameter Group Number: 65148 (0x00FE7C) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Engine Cylinder #5 Combustion Time 1448 
3-4 2 bytes Engine Cylinder #6 Combustion Time 1449 
5-6 2 bytes Engine Cylinder #7 Combustion Time 1450 
7-8 2 bytes Engine Cylinder #8 Combustion Time 1451 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1081 -
PGN 65149 Combustion Time 3 CT3 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 125 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 7 
Parameter Group Number: 65149 (0x00FE7D) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Engine Cylinder #9 Combustion Time 1452 
3-4 2 bytes Engine Cylinder #10 Combustion Time 1453 
5-6 2 bytes Engine Cylinder #11 Combustion Time 1454 
7-8 2 bytes Engine Cylinder #12 Combustion Time 1455 
PGN 65150 Combustion Time 4 CT4 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 126 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 7 
Parameter Group Number: 65150 (0x00FE7E) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Engine Cylinder #13 Combustion Time 1456 
3-4 2 bytes Engine Cylinder #14 Combustion Time 1457 
5-6 2 bytes Engine Cylinder #15 Combustion Time 1458 
7-8 2 bytes Engine Cylinder #16 Combustion Time 1459 
PGN 65151 Combustion Time 5 CT5 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 127 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 7 
Parameter Group Number: 65151 (0x00FE7F) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Engine Cylinder #17 Combustion Time 1460 
3-4 2 bytes Engine Cylinder #18 Combustion Time 1461 
5-6 2 bytes Engine Cylinder #19 Combustion Time 1462 
7-8 2 bytes Engine Cylinder #20 Combustion Time 1463 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1082 -
PGN 65152 Combustion Time 6 CT6 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 128 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 7 
Parameter Group Number: 65152 (0x00FE80) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Engine Desired Combustion Time 1464 
3-4 2 bytes Engine Average Combustion Time 1465 
PGN 65153 Fuel Information 2 (Gaseous) GFI2 
Gaseous fuel information 2 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 129 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 7 
Parameter Group Number: 65153 (0x00FE81) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Engine Fuel Flow Rate 1 1440 
3-4 2 bytes Engine Fuel Flow Rate 2 1441 
5 1 byte Engine Fuel Valve 1 Position 1442 
6 1 byte Engine Fuel Valve 2 Position 1443 
7 1 byte Engine Requested Fuel Valve 1 Position 1765 
8 1 byte Engine Requested Fuel Valve 2 Position 1766 
PGN 65154 Ignition Timing 1 IT1
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 130 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 7 
Parameter Group Number: 65154 (0x00FE82) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Engine Cylinder #1 Ignition Timing 1413 
3-4 2 bytes Engine Cylinder #2 Ignition Timing 1414 
5-6 2 bytes Engine Cylinder #3 Ignition Timing 1415 
7-8 2 bytes Engine Cylinder #4 Ignition Timing 1416 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1083 -
PGN 65155 Ignition Timing 2 IT2
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 131 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 7 
Parameter Group Number: 65155 (0x00FE83) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Engine Cylinder #5 Ignition Timing 1417 
3-4 2 bytes Engine Cylinder #6 Ignition Timing 1418 
5-6 2 bytes Engine Cylinder #7 Ignition Timing 1419 
7-8 2 bytes Engine Cylinder #8 Ignition Timing 1420 
PGN 65156 Ignition Timing 3 IT3
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 132 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 7 
Parameter Group Number: 65156 (0x00FE84) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Engine Cylinder #9 Ignition Timing 1421 
3-4 2 bytes Engine Cylinder #10 Ignition Timing 1422 
5-6 2 bytes Engine Cylinder #11 Ignition Timing 1423 
7-8 2 bytes Engine Cylinder #12 Ignition Timing 1424 
PGN 65157 Ignition Timing 4 IT4
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 133 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 7 
Parameter Group Number: 65157 (0x00FE85) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Engine Cylinder #13 Ignition Timing 1425 
3-4 2 bytes Engine Cylinder #14 Ignition Timing 1426 
5-6 2 bytes Engine Cylinder #15 Ignition Timing 1427 
7-8 2 bytes Engine Cylinder #16 Ignition Timing 1428 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1084 -
PGN 65158 Ignition Timing 5 IT5
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 134 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 7 
Parameter Group Number: 65158 (0x00FE86) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Engine Cylinder #17 Ignition Timing 1429 
3-4 2 bytes Engine Cylinder #18 Ignition Timing 1430 
5-6 2 bytes Engine Cylinder #19 Ignition Timing 1431 
7-8 2 bytes Engine Cylinder #20 Ignition Timing 1432 
PGN 65159 Ignition Timing 6 IT6
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 135 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 7 
Parameter Group Number: 65159 (0x00FE87) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Engine Desired Ignition Timing #1 1433 
3-4 2 bytes Engine Desired Ignition Timing #2 1434 
5-6 2 bytes Engine Desired Ignition Timing #3 1435 
7-8 2 bytes Engine Actual Ignition Timing 1436 
PGN 65160 Ignition Transformer Secondary Output 1 ISO1 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 136 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 7 
Parameter Group Number: 65160 (0x00FE88) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Engine Cylinder #1 Ignition Transformer Secondary Output 1393 
2 1 byte Engine Cylinder #2 Ignition Transformer Secondary Output 1394 
3 1 byte Engine Cylinder #3 Ignition Transformer Secondary Output 1395 
4 1 byte Engine Cylinder #4 Ignition Transformer Secondary Output 1396 
5 1 byte Engine Cylinder #5 Ignition Transformer Secondary Output 1397 
6 1 byte Engine Cylinder #6 Ignition Transformer Secondary Output 1398 
7 1 byte Engine Cylinder #7 Ignition Transformer Secondary Output 1399 
8 1 byte Engine Cylinder #8 Ignition Transformer Secondary Output 1400 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1085 -
PGN 65161 Ignition Transformer Secondary Output 2 ISO2 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 137 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 7 
Parameter Group Number: 65161 (0x00FE89) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Engine Cylinder #9 Ignition Transformer Secondary Output 1401 
2 1 byte Engine Cylinder #10 Ignition Transformer Secondary Output 1402 
3 1 byte Engine Cylinder #11 Ignition Transformer Secondary Output 1403 
4 1 byte Engine Cylinder #12 Ignition Transformer Secondary Output 1404 
5 1 byte Engine Cylinder #13 Ignition Transformer Secondary Output 1405 
6 1 byte Engine Cylinder #14 Ignition Transformer Secondary Output 1406 
7 1 byte Engine Cylinder #15 Ignition Transformer Secondary Output 1407 
8 1 byte Engine Cylinder #16 Ignition Transformer Secondary Output 1408 
PGN 65162 Ignition Transformer Secondary Output 3 ISO3 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 138 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 7 
Parameter Group Number: 65162 (0x00FE8A) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Engine Cylinder #17 Ignition Transformer Secondary Output 1409 
2 1 byte Engine Cylinder #18 Ignition Transformer Secondary Output 1410 
3 1 byte Engine Cylinder #19 Ignition Transformer Secondary Output 1411 
4 1 byte Engine Cylinder #20 Ignition Transformer Secondary Output 1412 
PGN 65163 Gaseous Fuel Pressure GFP 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 139 PGN Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 65163 
Default Priority: 7 
Parameter Group Number: 65163 (0x00FE8B) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Engine Fuel Valve 1 Intake Absolute Pressure 1390 
3-4 2 bytes Engine Fuel Valve Differential Pressure 1391 
5-6 2 bytes Engine Air to Fuel Differential Pressure 1392 
7-8 2 bytes Engine Fuel Valve 1 Outlet Absolute Pressure 2980 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1086 -
PGN 65164 Auxiliary Analog Information AAI 
Auxiliary Analog Information 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 140 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 7 
Parameter Group Number: 65164 (0x00FE8C) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Auxiliary Temperature 1 441 
2 1 byte Auxiliary Temperature 2 442 
3 1 byte Auxiliary Pressure #1 1387 
4 1 byte Auxiliary Pressure #2 1388 
5-6 2 bytes Auxiliary Level 3087 
7 1 byte Relative Humidity 354 
PGN 65165 Vehicle Electrical Power #2 VEP2 
Voltage data for the main vehicle Power Distribution system. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 141 PGN Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 65104 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65165 (0x00FE8D) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Battery Potential / Power Input 2 444 
3-4 2 bytes ECU Power Output Supply Voltage #1 3597 
5-6 2 bytes ECU Power Output Supply Voltage #2 3598 
7-8 2 bytes ECU Power Output Supply Voltage #3 3599 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1087 -
PGN 65166 Service 2 S2
NOTE - There are two acceptable formats for the Service PGN. Format 1 has only 8 bytes of data and reports the 
component most in need of service for each of the three categories. Format 2, however, uses the transport protocol as 
necessary (See J1939-21) in order to repeat these 8 bytes of service component information until all supported service 
components in each category have been transmitted. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 142 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 7 
Parameter Group Number: 65166 (0x00FE8E) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Service Component Identification 1379 
2-3 2 bytes Time Since Last Service 1350 
PGN 65167 Supply Pressure 2 SP2
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 143 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65167 (0x00FE8F) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Engine External Shutdown Air Supply Pressure 1320 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1088 -
PGN 65168 Engine Torque History ETH 
NOTE - The torque history PGN is variable in length and may contain up to 125 torque history records. Each torque 
history record MUST BE 38 bytes in length. Any unused bytes must be 0xFF. 
The last six bytes of each record are not currently defined and shall be transmitted as “not available” (0xff). In the first 
record, these are byte positions 34-39. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: Variable 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 144 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65168 (0x00FE90) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
01 1 byte Number of Engine Torque History Records 1246 
02-03 2 bytes Engine Power 1247 
04-05 2 bytes Engine Peak Torque 1 1248 
06-07 2 bytes Engine Peak Torque 2 1249 
08 1 byte Calibration Record Start Month 1250 
09 1 byte Calibration Record Start Day 1251 
10 1 byte Calibration Record Start Year 1252 
11-14 4 bytes Calibration Record Duration Time 1253 
15.1 2 bits Torque Limiting Feature Status 1254 
15.3 3 bits Engine Torque Limit Feature 1632 
16-17 2 bytes Transmission Gear Ratio 1 1255 
18-19 2 bytes Engine Torque Limit 1, Transmission 1256 
20-21 2 bytes Transmission Gear Ratio 2 1257 
22-23 2 bytes Engine Torque Limit 2, Transmission 1258 
24-25 2 bytes Transmission Gear Ratio 3 1259 
26-27 2 bytes Engine Torque Limit 3, Transmission 1260 
28-29 2 bytes Engine Torque Limit 4, Transmission 1261 
30-31 2 bytes Engine Torque Limit 5, Switch 1262 
32-33 2 bytes Engine Torque Limit 6, Axle Input 1263 
PGN 65169 Fuel Leakage FL
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 145 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 7 
Parameter Group Number: 65169 (0x00FE91) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits Engine Fuel Leakage 1 1239 
1.3 2 bits Engine Fuel Leakage 2 1240 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1089 -
PGN 65170 Engine Information EI
Transmission Repetition Rate: 100 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 146 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 7 
Parameter Group Number: 65170 (0x00FE92) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Engine Pre-filter Oil Pressure 1208 
2-3 2 bytes Engine Exhaust Gas Pressure 1209 
4 1 byte Engine Fuel Rack Position 1210 
5-6 2 bytes Engine Gas Mass Flow Rate 1 1241 
7-8 2 bytes Instantaneous Estimated Brake Power 1242 
PGN 65171 Engine Electrical System/Module Information EES 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 100 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 147 PGN Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 65104 
Default Priority: 7 
Parameter Group Number: 65171 (0x00FE93) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Electrical Load 1204 
3.1 2 bits Safety Wire Status 1205 
PGN 65172 Engine Auxiliary Coolant EAC 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 0.5 s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 148 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65172 (0x00FE94) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Engine Auxiliary Coolant Pressure 1203 
2 1 byte Engine Auxiliary Coolant Temperature 1212 
3 1 byte Sea Water Pump Outlet Pressure 2435 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1090 -
PGN 65173 Rebuild Information RBI 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 149 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 7 
Parameter Group Number: 65173 (0x00FE95) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-4 4 bytes Engine Operation Time Since Rebuild 1193 
(R) PGN 65174 Turbocharger Wastegate TCW 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 100 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 150 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65174 (0x00FE96) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Engine Turbocharger Wastegate Actuator 1 Position 1188 
2 1 byte Engine Turbocharger Wastegate Actuator 2 Position 1189 
3 1 byte Engine Turbocharger Wastegate Actuator 3 Position 1190 
4 1 byte Engine Turbocharger Wastegate Actuator 4 Position 1191 
5 1 byte Engine Turbocharger Wastegate Actuator Control Air Pressure 1192 
6 1 byte Engine Desired Turbocharger Wastegate Actuator 1 Position 5370 
7.1 5 bits Engine Turbocharger Wastegate Actuator 1 Preliminary FMI 5371 
7.6 3 bits Engine Turbocharger Wastegate Actuator 1 Temperature 
Status
5372
8 1 byte Engine Desired Turbocharger Wastegate Actuator 2 Position 5373 
PGN 65175 Turbocharger Information 5 TCI5 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 151 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65175 (0x00FE97) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Engine Turbocharger 1 Turbine Outlet Temperature 1184 
3-4 2 bytes Engine Turbocharger 2 Turbine Outlet Temperature 1185 
5-6 2 bytes Engine Turbocharger 3 Turbine Outlet Temperature 1186 
7-8 2 bytes Engine Turbocharger 4 Turbine Outlet Temperature 1187 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1091 -
PGN 65176 Turbocharger Information 4 TCI4 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 152 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65176 (0x00FE98) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Engine Turbocharger 1 Turbine Intake Temperature 1180 
3-4 2 bytes Engine Turbocharger 2 Turbine Intake Temperature 1181 
5-6 2 bytes Engine Turbocharger 3 Turbine Intake Temperature 1182 
7-8 2 bytes Engine Turbocharger 4 Turbine Intake Temperature 1183 
PGN 65177 Turbocharger Information 3 TCI3 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 153 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65177 (0x00FE99) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Engine Turbocharger 1 Compressor Intake Pressure 1176 
3-4 2 bytes Engine Turbocharger 2 Compressor Intake Pressure 1177 
5-6 2 bytes Engine Turbocharger 3 Compressor Intake Pressure 1178 
7-8 2 bytes Engine Turbocharger 4 Compressor Intake Pressure 1179 
PGN 65178 Turbocharger Information 2 TCI2 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 154 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65178 (0x00FE9A) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Engine Turbocharger 1 Compressor Intake Temperature 1172 
3-4 2 bytes Engine Turbocharger 2 Compressor Intake Temperature 1173 
5-6 2 bytes Engine Turbocharger 3 Compressor Intake Temperature 1174 
7-8 2 bytes Engine Turbocharger 4 Compressor Intake Temperature 1175 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1092 -
PGN 65179 Turbocharger Information 1 TCI1 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 155 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 7 
Parameter Group Number: 65179 (0x00FE9B) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Engine Turbocharger Lube Oil Pressure 2 1168 
2-3 2 bytes Engine Turbocharger 2 Speed 1169 
4-5 2 bytes Engine Turbocharger 3 Speed 1170 
6-7 2 bytes Engine Turbocharger 4 Speed 1171 
PGN 65180 Main Bearing Temperature 3 MBT3 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 156 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65180 (0x00FE9C) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Engine Main Bearing 9 Temperature 1165 
3-4 2 bytes Engine Main Bearing 10 Temperature 1166 
5-6 2 bytes Engine Main Bearing 11 Temperature 1167 
PGN 65181 Main Bearing Temperature 2 MBT2 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 157 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65181 (0x00FE9D) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Engine Main Bearing 5 Temperature 1161 
3-4 2 bytes Engine Main Bearing 6 Temperature 1162 
5-6 2 bytes Engine Main Bearing 7 Temperature 1163 
7-8 2 bytes Engine Main Bearing 8 Temperature 1164 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1093 -
PGN 65182 Main Bearing Temperature 1 MBT1 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 158 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65182 (0x00FE9E) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Engine Main Bearing 1 Temperature 1157 
3-4 2 bytes Engine Main Bearing 2 Temperature 1158 
5-6 2 bytes Engine Main Bearing 3 Temperature 1159 
7-8 2 bytes Engine Main Bearing 4 Temperature 1160 
PGN 65183 Exhaust Port Temperature 5 EPT5 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 159 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 7 
Parameter Group Number: 65183 (0x00FE9F) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Engine Exhaust Gas Port 17 Temperature 1153 
3-4 2 bytes Engine Exhaust Gas Port 18 Temperature 1154 
5-6 2 bytes Engine Exhaust Gas Port 19 Temperature 1155 
7-8 2 bytes Engine Exhaust Gas Port 20 Temperature 1156 
PGN 65184 Exhaust Port Temperature 4 EPT4 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 160 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65184 (0x00FEA0) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Engine Exhaust Gas Port 13 Temperature 1149 
3-4 2 bytes Engine Exhaust Gas Port 14 Temperature 1150 
5-6 2 bytes Engine Exhaust Gas Port 15 Temperature 1151 
7-8 2 bytes Engine Exhaust Gas Port 16 Temperature 1152 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1094 -
PGN 65185 Exhaust Port Temperature 3 EPT3 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 161 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 7 
Parameter Group Number: 65185 (0x00FEA1) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Engine Exhaust Gas Port 9 Temperature 1145 
3-4 2 bytes Engine Exhaust Gas Port 10 Temperature 1146 
5-6 2 bytes Engine Exhaust Gas Port 11 Temperature 1147 
7-8 2 bytes Engine Exhaust Gas Port 12 Temperature 1148 
PGN 65186 Exhaust Port Temperature 2 EPT2 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 162 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 7 
Parameter Group Number: 65186 (0x00FEA2) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Engine Exhaust Gas Port 5 Temperature 1141 
3-4 2 bytes Engine Exhaust Gas Port 6 Temperature 1142 
5-6 2 bytes Engine Exhaust Gas Port 7 Temperature 1143 
7-8 2 bytes Engine Exhaust Gas Port 8 Temperature 1144 
PGN 65187 Exhaust Port Temperature 1 EPT1 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 163 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 7 
Parameter Group Number: 65187 (0x00FEA3) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Engine Exhaust Gas Port 1 Temperature 1137 
3-4 2 bytes Engine Exhaust Gas Port 2 Temperature 1138 
5-6 2 bytes Engine Exhaust Gas Port 3 Temperature 1139 
7-8 2 bytes Engine Exhaust Gas Port 4 Temperature 1140 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1095 -
PGN 65188 Engine Temperature 2 ET2 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 164 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65188 (0x00FEA4) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Engine Oil Temperature 2 1135 
3-4 2 bytes Engine ECU Temperature 1136 
5-6 2 bytes Engine Exhaust Gas Recirculation 1 Differential Pressure 411 
7-8 2 bytes Engine Exhaust Gas Recirculation 1 Temperature 412 
PGN 65189 Intake Manifold Information 2 IMT2 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 165 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 7 
Parameter Group Number: 65189 (0x00FEA5) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Engine Intake Manifold 2 Temperature 1131 
2 1 byte Engine Intake Manifold 3 Temperature 1132 
3 1 byte Engine Intake Manifold 4 Temperature 1133 
4 1 byte Engine Intake Manifold 5 Temperature 1802 
5 1 byte Engine Intake Manifold 6 Temperature 1803 
PGN 65190 Intake Manifold Information 1 IMT1 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 0.5 s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 166 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65190 (0x00FEA6) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Engine Turbocharger 1 Boost Pressure 1127 
3-4 2 bytes Engine Turbocharger 2 Boost Pressure 1128 
5-6 2 bytes Engine Turbocharger 3 Boost Pressure 1129 
7-8 2 bytes Engine Turbocharger 4 Boost Pressure 1130 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1096 -
PGN 65191 Alternator Temperature AT 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 167 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 7 
Parameter Group Number: 65191 (0x00FEA7) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Engine Alternator Bearing 1 Temperature 1122 
2 1 byte Engine Alternator Bearing 2 Temperature 1123 
3 1 byte Engine Alternator Winding 1 Temperature 1124 
4 1 byte Engine Alternator Winding 2 Temperature 1125 
5 1 byte Engine Alternator Winding 3 Temperature 1126 
(R) PGN 65192 Articulation Control ACTL 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 168 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 7 
Parameter Group Number: 65192 (0x00FEA8) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Articulation Angle 1120 
PGN 65193 Exhaust Oxygen 1 EO1
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 169 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 7 
Parameter Group Number: 65193 (0x00FEA9) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Engine Desired Rated Exhaust Oxygen 1117 
3-4 2 bytes Engine Desired Exhaust Oxygen 1118 
5-6 2 bytes Engine Actual Exhaust Oxygen 1119 
7 1 byte Engine Exhaust Gas Oxygen Sensor Fueling Correction 1695 
8.7 2 bits Engine Exhaust Gas Oxygen Sensor Closed Loop Operation 1696 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1097 -
PGN 65194 Alternate Fuel 2 AF2
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 170 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 7 
Parameter Group Number: 65194 (0x00FEAA) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Engine Gaseous Fuel Correction Factor 1116 
2-3 2 bytes Engine Desired Absolute Intake Manifold Pressure (Turbo 
Boost Limit) 
1692
4 1 byte Engine Turbocharger Wastegate Valve Position 1693 
5 1 byte Engine Gas Mass Flow Sensor Fueling Correction 1694 
PGN 65195 Electronic Transmission Controller 6 ETC6 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 171 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 7 
Parameter Group Number: 65195 (0x00FEAB) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Recommended Gear 1113 
2 1 byte Highest Possible Gear 1115 
3 1 byte Lowest Possible Gear 1114 
4 1 byte Clutch Life Remaining 2983 
PGN 65196 Wheel Brake Lining Remaining Information EBC4 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 172 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 7 
Parameter Group Number: 65196 (0x00FEAC) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Brake Lining Remaining, Front Axle, Left Wheel 1099 
2 1 byte Brake Lining Remaining, Front Axle, Right Wheel 1100 
3 1 byte Brake Lining Remaining, Rear Axle #1, Left Wheel 1101 
4 1 byte Brake Lining Remaining, Rear Axle #1, Right Wheel 1102 
5 1 byte Brake Lining Remaining, Rear Axle #2, Left Wheel 1103 
6 1 byte Brake Lining Remaining, Rear Axle #2, Right Wheel 1104 
7 1 byte Brake Lining Remaining, Rear Axle #3, Left Wheel 1105 
8 1 byte Brake Lining Remaining, Rear Axle #3, Right Wheel 1106 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1098 -
PGN 65197 Wheel Application Pressure High Range Information EBC3 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 100 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 173 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65197 (0x00FEAD) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Brake Application Pressure High Range, Front Axle, Left Wheel 1091 
2 1 byte Brake Application Pressure High Range, Front Axle, Right 
Wheel 
1092
3 1 byte Brake Application Pressure High Range, Rear Axle #1, Left 
Wheel 
1093
4 1 byte Brake Application Pressure High Range, Rear Axle #1, Right 
Wheel 
1094
5 1 byte Brake Application Pressure High Range, Rear Axle #2, Left 
Wheel 
1095
6 1 byte Brake Application Pressure High Range, Rear Axle #2, Right 
Wheel 
1096
7 1 byte Brake Application Pressure High Range, Rear Axle #3, Left 
Wheel 
1097
8 1 byte Brake Application Pressure High Range, Rear Axle #3, Right 
Wheel 
1098
PGN 65198 Air Supply Pressure AIR1 
Air Supply Pressure 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 sec 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 174 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65198 (0x00FEAE) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Pneumatic Supply Pressure 46 
2 1 byte Parking and/or Trailer Air Pressure 1086 
3 1 byte Service Brake Circuit 1 Air Pressure 1087 
4 1 byte Service Brake Circuit 2 Air Pressure 1088 
5 1 byte Auxiliary Equipment Supply Pressure 1089 
6 1 byte Air Suspension Supply Pressure 1090 
7.1 2 bits Air Compressor Status 1351 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1099 -
PGN 65199 Fuel Consumption (Gaseous) GFC 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 175 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 7 
Parameter Group Number: 65199 (0x00FEAF) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-4 4 bytes Trip Fuel (Gaseous) 1039 
5-8 4 bytes Total Fuel Used (Gaseous) 1040 
PGN 65200 Trip Time Information 2 TTI2 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 20 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 176 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 7 
Parameter Group Number: 65200 (0x00FEB0) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
01-04 4 bytes Trip Cruise Time 1034 
05-08 4 bytes Trip PTO Governor Time 1035 
09-12 4 bytes Trip Engine Running Time 1036 
13-16 4 bytes Trip Idle Time 1037 
17-20 4 bytes Trip Air Compressor On Time 1038 
PGN 65201 ECU History EH
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 177 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 7 
Parameter Group Number: 65201 (0x00FEB1) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-4 4 bytes Total ECU Distance 1032 
5-8 4 bytes Total ECU Run Time 1033 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1100 -
PGN 65202 Fuel Information 1 (Gaseous) GFI1 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 178 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 7 
Parameter Group Number: 65202 (0x00FEB2) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-4 4 bytes Total Engine PTO Governor Fuel Used (Gaseous) 1030 
5-6 2 bytes Trip Average Fuel Rate (Gaseous) 1031 
7-8 2 bytes Engine Fuel Specific Gravity 1389 
PGN 65203 Fuel Information (Liquid) LFI 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 179 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 7 
Parameter Group Number: 65203 (0x00FEB3) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-4 4 bytes Total Engine PTO Governor Fuel Used 1028 
5-6 2 bytes Trip Average Fuel Rate 1029 
7-8 2 bytes Flexible Fuel Percentage 5458 
PGN 65204 Trip Time Information 1 TTI1 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 16 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 180 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 7 
Parameter Group Number: 65204 (0x00FEB4) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
01-04 4 bytes Trip Time in VSL 1024 
05-08 4 bytes Trip Time in Top Gear 1025 
09-12 4 bytes Trip Time in Gear Down 1026 
13-16 4 bytes Trip Time in Derate by Engine 1027 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1101 -
PGN 65205 Trip Shutdown Information TSI 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 181 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 7 
Parameter Group Number: 65205 (0x00FEB5) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Trip Number of Hot Shutdowns 1020 
3-4 2 bytes Trip Number of Idle Shutdowns 1021 
5-6 2 bytes Trip Number of Idle Shutdown Overrides 1022 
7-8 2 bytes Trip Sudden Decelerations 1023 
PGN 65206 Trip Vehicle Speed/Cruise Distance Information TVI 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 182 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 7 
Parameter Group Number: 65206 (0x00FEB6) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Trip Maximum Vehicle Speed 1018 
3-6 4 bytes Trip Cruise Distance 1019 
PGN 65207 Engine Speed/Load Factor Information LF 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 10 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 183 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 7 
Parameter Group Number: 65207 (0x00FEB7) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Trip Maximum Engine Speed 1013 
3-4 2 bytes Trip Average Engine Speed 1014 
5 1 byte Trip Drive Average Load Factor 1015 
6 1 byte Total Drive Average Load Factor 1016 
7-10 4 bytes Total Engine Cruise Time 1017 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1102 -
PGN 65208 Trip Fuel Information (Gaseous) GTFI 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 22 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 184 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 7 
Parameter Group Number: 65208 (0x00FEB8) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
01-04 4 bytes Trip Drive Fuel Used (Gaseous) 1007 
05-08 4 bytes Trip PTO Governor Moving Fuel Used (Gaseous) 1008 
09-12 4 bytes Trip PTO Governor Non-moving Fuel Used (Gaseous) 1009 
13-16 4 bytes Trip Vehicle Idle Fuel Used (Gaseous) 1010 
17-20 4 bytes Trip Cruise Fuel Used (Gaseous) 1011 
21-22 2 bytes Trip Drive Fuel Economy (Gaseous) 1012 
PGN 65209 Trip Fuel Information (Liquid) LTFI 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 22 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 185 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 7 
Parameter Group Number: 65209 (0x00FEB9) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
01-04 4 bytes Trip Drive Fuel Used 1001 
05-08 4 bytes Trip PTO Governor Moving Fuel Used 1002 
09-12 4 bytes Trip PTO Governor Non-moving Fuel Used 1003 
13-16 4 bytes Trip Vehicle Idle Fuel Used 1004 
17-20 4 bytes Trip Cruise Fuel Used 1005 
21-22 2 bytes Trip Drive Fuel Economy 1006 
PGN 65210 Trip Distance Information TDI 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 12 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 186 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 7 
Parameter Group Number: 65210 (0x00FEBA) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-4 4 bytes Trip Distance on VSL 998 
5-8 4 bytes Trip Gear Down Distance 999 
9-12 4 bytes Trip Distance in Top Gear 1000 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1103 -
PGN 65211 Trip Fan Information TFI 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 16 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 187 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 7 
Parameter Group Number: 65211 (0x00FEBB) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
01-04 4 bytes Trip Fan On Time 994 
05-08 4 bytes Trip Fan On Time Due to the Engine System 995 
09-12 4 bytes Trip Fan On Time Due to a Manual Switch 996 
13-16 4 bytes Trip Fan On Time Due to the A/C System 997 
PGN 65212 Compression/Service Brake Information CBI 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 16 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 188 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 7 
Parameter Group Number: 65212 (0x00FEBC) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
01-04 4 bytes Total Compression Brake Distance 990 
05-08 4 bytes Trip Compression Brake Distance 991 
09-12 4 bytes Trip Service Brake Distance 992 
13-16 4 bytes Trip Service Brake Applications 993 
(R) PGN 65213 Fan Drive 1 FD1
This parameter group transfers status and measured information for an engine coolant fan. This PGN is used for the 
primary fan if there are more than one fan in the syste. PGN 64817 may be used for a second fan. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 189 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65213 (0x00FEBD) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Estimated Percent Fan Speed 975 
2.1 4 bits Fan Drive State 977 
3-4 2 bytes Fan Speed 1639 
5-6 2 bytes Hydraulic Fan Motor Pressure 4211 
7 1 byte Fan Drive Bypass Command Status 4212 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1104 -
PGN 65214 Electronic Engine Controller 4 EEC4 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 190 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 7 
Parameter Group Number: 65214 (0x00FEBE) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Engine Rated Power 166 
3-4 2 bytes Engine Rated Speed 189 
5.1 2 bits Engine Rotation Direction 3669 
5.3 2 bits Engine Intake Manifold Pressure Control Mode 5465 
6 1 byte Crank Attempt Count on Present Start Attempt 3671 
PGN 65215 Wheel Speed Information EBC2 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 100 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 191 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65215 (0x00FEBF) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Front Axle Speed 904 
3 1 byte Relative Speed; Front Axle, Left Wheel 905 
4 1 byte Relative Speed; Front Axle, Right Wheel 906 
5 1 byte Relative Speed; Rear Axle #1, Left Wheel 907 
6 1 byte Relative Speed; Rear Axle #1, Right Wheel 908 
7 1 byte Relative Speed; Rear Axle #2, Left Wheel 909 
8 1 byte Relative Speed; Rear Axle #2, Right Wheel 910 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1105 -
PGN 65216 Service Information SERV 
Transmitted with the service component identification that has the shortest distance or nearest time until the next service 
inspection.
NOTE - There are two acceptable formats for the Service PGN. Format 1 has only 8 bytes of data and reports the 
component most in need of service for each of the three categories. Format 2, however, uses the transport layer as 
necessary in order to repeat these 8 bytes of service component information until all supported service components in 
each category have been transmitted. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 bytes or variable 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 192 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65216 (0x00FEC0) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Service Component Identification 911 
2-3 2 bytes Service Distance 914 
4 1 byte Service Component Identification 912 
5 1 byte Service Delay/Calendar Time Based 915 
6 1 byte Service Component Identification 913 
7-8 2 bytes Service Delay/Operational Time Based 916 
PGN 65217 High Resolution Vehicle Distance VDHR 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 193 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65217 (0x00FEC1) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-4 4 bytes High Resolution Total Vehicle Distance 917 
5-8 4 bytes High Resolution Trip Distance 918 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1106 -
PGN 65218 Electronic Retarder Controller 2 ERC2 
Transmission Repetition Rate: Every 1 s and on change of state but no faster than every 100 ms. Grandfathered 
definition for systems that implemented this message prior to July, 2010: 1 s when 
active; or on change of state 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 194 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 7 
Parameter Group Number: 65218 (0x00FEC2) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits Transmission Output Retarder 748 
PGN 65219 Electronic Transmission Controller 5 ETC5 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 195 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 7 
Parameter Group Number: 65219 (0x00FEC3) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits Transmission High Range Sense Switch 778 
1.3 2 bits Transmission Low Range Sense Switch 779 
2.1 2 bits Transmission Reverse Direction Switch 767 
2.3 2 bits Transmission Neutral Switch 604 
2.5 2 bits Transmission Forward Direction Switch 903 
PGN 65221 Electronic Transmission Controller 4 ETC4 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 197 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 7 
Parameter Group Number: 65221 (0x00FEC5) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Transmission Synchronizer Clutch Value 53 
2 1 byte Transmission Synchronizer Brake Value 54 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1107 -
PGN 65223 Electronic Transmission Controller 3 ETC3 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 199 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 7 
Parameter Group Number: 65223 (0x00FEC7) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Transmission Shift Finger Gear Position 59 
2 1 byte Transmission Shift Finger Rail Position 60 
3.1 2 bits Transmission Shift Finger Neutral Indicator 780 
3.3 2 bits Transmission Shift Finger Engagement Indicator 781 
3.5 2 bits Transmission Shift Finger Center Rail Indicator 782 
4.1 2 bits Transmission Shift Finger Rail Actuator 1 772 
4.3 2 bits Transmission Shift Finger Gear Actuator 1 773 
4.5 2 bits Transmission Shift Finger Rail Actuator 2 783 
4.7 2 bits Transmission Shift Finger Gear Actuator 2 784 
5.1 2 bits Transmission Range High Actuator 768 
5.3 2 bits Transmission Range Low Actuator 769 
5.5 2 bits Transmission Splitter Direct Actuator 770 
5.7 2 bits Transmission Splitter Indirect Actuator 771 
6.1 2 bits Transmission Clutch Actuator 788 
6.3 2 bits Transmission Lockup Clutch Actuator 740 
6.5 2 bits Transmission Defuel Actuator 786 
6.7 2 bits Transmission Inertia Brake Actuator 787 
PGN 65237 Alternator Information AS 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 sec 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 213 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65237 (0x00FED5) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Alternator Speed 589 
3.1 2 bits Alternator 1 Status 3353 
3.3 2 bits Alternator 2 Status 3354 
3.5 2 bits Alternator 3 Status 3355 
3.7 2 bits Alternator 4 Status 3356 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1108 -
PGN 65241 Auxiliary Input/Output Status 1 AUXIO1 
Notes: 
Implementers are encouraged to use specific functional SPNs whenever possible. 
AUXIO PGNs are intended for two categories of use in which fixed mapping to functions is not possible: 
1) Generic I/O devices 
2) Applications lacking defined input and output functionality. 
Use, or request new, functionally defined parameters in all other cases. 
Implementers and integrators considering using AUXIO PGNs should be cautious of conflicts that can arise from multiple 
users on a single system. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: manufacturer defined, not faster than 100 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 217 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65241 (0x00FED9) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #04 704 
1.3 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #03 703 
1.5 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #02 702 
1.7 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #01 701 
2.1 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #08 708 
2.3 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #07 707 
2.5 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #06 706 
2.7 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #05 705 
3.1 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #12 712 
3.3 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #11 711 
3.5 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #10 710 
3.7 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #09 709 
4.1 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #16 716 
4.3 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #15 715 
4.5 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #14 714 
4.7 2 bits Auxiliary I/O #13 713 
5-6 2 bytes Auxiliary I/O Channel #1 1083 
7-8 2 bytes Auxiliary I/O Channel #2 1084 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1109 -
PGN 65242 Software Identification SOFT 
Byte: 1 Number of software identification fields 
2-n Software identification(s) 
Delimiter (ASCII “*”) 
NOTE- The software identification field is variable in length and may contain up to 125 software identification designators. 
 An ASCII “*” is used as a delimiter to separate multiple software identifications. Additional software identification fields 
may be added at the end, each separated by an ASCII “*” as a delimiter. An ASCII “*” is required at the end of the last 
software identification field, even if there is only one software identification designator. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: Variable 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 218 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65242 (0x00FEDA) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Number of Software Identification Fields 965 
2-N Variable - up to 
200 bytes 
followed by an "*" 
delimiter
Software Identification 234 
PGN 65243 Engine Fluid Level/Pressure 2 EFL/P2 
2nd PGN which identifies parameters that are either measuring various pressures within the engine or identifying engine 
fluid levels 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 0.5 s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 219 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65243 (0x00FEDB) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Engine Injection Control Pressure 164 
3-4 2 bytes Engine Injector Metering Rail 1 Pressure 157 
5-6 2 bytes Engine Injector Timing Rail 1 Pressure 156 
7-8 2 bytes Engine Injector Metering Rail 2 Pressure 1349 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1110 -
PGN 65244 Idle Operation IO
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: Variable 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 220 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65244 (0x00FEDC) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-4 4 bytes Engine Total Idle Fuel Used 236 
5-8 4 bytes Engine Total Idle Hours 235 
PGN 65245 Turbocharger TC
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 221 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65245 (0x00FEDD) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Engine Turbocharger Lube Oil Pressure 1 104 
2-3 2 bytes Engine Turbocharger 1 Speed 103 
4.7 2 bits Engine Turbocharger Oil Level Switch 1665 
PGN 65246 Air Start Pressure AIR2
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 222 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65246 (0x00FEDE) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Engine Air Start Pressure 82 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1111 -
PGN 65247 Electronic Engine Controller 3 EEC3 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 250 msec (preferred) or Engine Speed Dependent (if required by application) 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 223 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65247 (0x00FEDF) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Nominal Friction - Percent Torque 514 
2-3 2 bytes Engine's Desired Operating Speed 515 
4 1 byte Engine's Desired Operating Speed Asymmetry Adjustment 519 
5 1 byte Estimated Engine Parasitic Losses - Percent Torque 2978 
6-7 2 bytes Aftertreatment 1 Exhaust Gas Mass Flow 3236 
8.1 2 bits Aftertreatment 1 Intake Dew Point 3237 
8.3 2 bits Aftertreatment 1 Exhaust Dew Point 3238 
8.5 2 bits Aftertreatment 2 Intake Dew Point 3239 
8.7 2 bits Aftertreatment 2 Exhaust Dew Point 3240 
PGN 65248 Vehicle Distance VD
Transmission Repetition Rate: 100 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 224 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65248 (0x00FEE0) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-4 4 bytes Trip Distance 244 
5-8 4 bytes Total Vehicle Distance 245 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1112 -
PGN 65249 Retarder Configuration RC 
This map describes the stationary behavior of the retarder. 
Note: Grandfathered definition for systems that implemented this message prior to July, 2010: On change of 
torque/speed points of more than 10% since last transmission, or every 5 s. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: Every 5 s and on change of torque/speed points of more than 10% since last 
transmission but no faster than every 500 ms 
Data Length: 19 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 225 PGN Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 65249 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65249 (0x00FEE1) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
01.1 4 bits Retarder Type 901 
01.5 4 bits Retarder Location 902 
02 1 byte Retarder Control Method (Retarder Configuration) 557 
03-04 2 bytes Retarder Speed At Idle, Point 1 (Retarder Configuration) 546 
05 1 byte Percent Torque At Idle, Point 1 (Retarder Configuration) 551 
06-07 2 bytes Maximum Retarder Speed, Point 2 (Retarder Configuration) 548 
08 1 byte Percent Torque At Maximum Speed, Point 2 (Retarder 
Configuration)
552
09-10 2 bytes Retarder Speed At Point 3 (Retarder Configuration) 549 
11 1 byte Percent Torque At Point 3 (Retarder Configuration) 553 
12-13 2 bytes Retarder Speed At Point 4 (Retarder Configuration) 550 
14 1 byte Percent Torque At Point 4 (Retarder Configuration) 554 
15-16 2 bytes Retarder Speed At Peak Torque, Point 5 (Retarder 
Configuration)
547
17-18 2 bytes Reference Retarder Torque (Retarder Configuration) 556 
19 1 byte Percent Torque At Peak Torque, Point 5 (Retarder 
Configuration)
555
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1113 -
PGN 65250 Transmission Configuration TCFG 
Total message length depends on total number of forward and reverse gear ratios. 
NOTE: The first gear ratio transmitted in bytes 3,4 will be the highest reverse gear ratio. Additional 2-byte gear ratios will
follow:
 3,4 Highest reverse gear ratio 
 . 
 . 
 a,b Lowest reverse gear ratio 
 c,d Lowest forward gear ratio 
 . 
 . 
 e,f Highest forward gear ratio 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: Variable 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 226 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65250 (0x00FEE2) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Number of Reverse Gear Ratios 958 
2 1 byte Number of Forward Gear Ratios 957 
3-4 2 bytes Transmission Gear Ratio 581 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1114 -
PGN 65251 Engine Configuration 1 EC1 
This map describes the stationary behavior of the engine and the speed dependent available indicated torque. This map 
should reflect the effect of changes due to barometric pressure, engine temperature, and any other stationary changes 
(sensor failures, etc.) which influence the engine torque curve more than 10%. This map is only valid for maximum boost 
pressure. At low boost pressures the torque limit may be much lower. 
The engine configuration message must be sent at any time that the engine configuration map has changed by more than 
10% of speed or torque (due to events other than boost pressure) since that last time the message was transmitted. As 
an alternative, it may be sent periodically, once every 5 s. It shall also be sent on response to a configuration request 
message.
The engine characteristic can be described in one of three modes. Mode 1 provides a complete curve of speed and 
torque points (see PGN65251_A). Modes 2 and 3 provide a partial curve of speed and torque points and a separate 
endspeed governor characteristic. In modes 2 and 3, the receiver of the engine configuration message has to calculate 
the minimum of the engine torque curve and the endspeed governor characteristic to get the final available engine torque. 
Mode 2 provides a high idle point where torque equals zero (point 6) and the endspeed governor gain Kp (see Figure 
PGN65251_B). Mode 3 provides the kick-in point of the endspeed governor (point 2) and the governor gain Kp (see 
Figure PGN65251_C). 
The selection of the three modes can be done by setting the parameters as shown in 'Table PGN65251_A. 
Grandfathered definition for systems that implemented this message prior to July, 2010: On change of torque/speed 
points of more than 10% since last transmission. Alternative: Every 5 s. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: Every 5 s and on change of torque/speed points of more than 10% since last 
transmission but no faster than every 500 ms 
Data Length: 39 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 227 PGN Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 65251 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65251 (0x00FEE3) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
01-02 2 bytes Engine Speed At Idle, Point 1 (Engine Configuration) 188 
03 1 byte Engine Percent Torque At Idle, Point 1 (Engine Configuration) 539 
04-05 2 bytes Engine Speed At Point 2 (Engine Configuration) 528 
06 1 byte Engine Percent Torque At Point 2 (Engine Configuration) 540 
07-08 2 bytes Engine Speed At Point 3 (Engine Configuration) 529 
09 1 byte Engine Percent Torque At Point 3 (Engine Configuration) 541 
10-11 2 bytes Engine Speed At Point 4 (Engine Configuration) 530 
12 1 byte Engine Percent Torque At Point 4 (Engine Configuration) 542 
13-14 2 bytes Engine Speed At Point 5 (Engine Configuration) 531 
15 1 byte Engine Percent Torque At Point 5 (Engine Configuration) 543 
16-17 2 bytes Engine Speed At High Idle, Point 6 (Engine Configuration) 532 
18-19 2 bytes Engine Gain (Kp) Of The Endspeed Governor (Engine 
Configuration)
545
20-21 2 bytes Engine Reference Torque (Engine Configuration) 544 
22-23 2 bytes Engine Maximum Momentary Override Speed, Point 7 (Engine 
Configuration)
533
24 1 byte Engine Maximum Momentary Override Time Limit (Engine 
Configuration)
534
25 1 byte Engine Requested Speed Control Range Lower Limit (Engine 
Configuration)
535
26 1 byte Engine Requested Speed Control Range Upper Limit (Engine 
Configuration)
536
27 1 byte Engine Requested Torque Control Range Lower Limit (Engine 
Configuration)
537
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1115 -
28 1 byte Engine Requested Torque Control Range Upper Limit (Engine 
Configuration)
538
29-30 2 bytes Engine Extended Range Requested Speed Control Range 
Upper Limit (Engine configuration) 
1712
31-32 2 bytes Engine Moment of Inertia 1794 
33-34 2 bytes Engine Default Torque Limit 1846 
35 8 bits Support Variable Rate TSC1 Message 3344 
36 8 bits Support TSC1 Control Purpose Group 1 3345 
37 8 bits Support TSC1 Control Purpose Group 2 3346 
38 8 bits Support TSC1 Control Purpose Group 3 3347 
39 8 bits Support TSC1 Control Purpose Group 4 3348 
(R) PGN 65252 Shutdown SHUTDN
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 228 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65252 (0x00FEE4) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits Engine Idle Shutdown has Shutdown Engine 593 
1.3 2 bits Engine Idle Shutdown Driver Alert Mode 594 
1.5 2 bits Engine Idle Shutdown Timer Override 592 
1.7 2 bits Engine Idle Shutdown Timer State 590 
2.7 2 bits Engine Idle Shutdown Timer Function 591 
3.1 2 bits A/C High Pressure Fan Switch 985 
3.3 2 bits Refrigerant Low Pressure Switch 875 
3.5 2 bits Refrigerant High Pressure Switch 605 
4.1 2 bits Engine Wait to Start Lamp 1081 
5.1 2 bits Engine Protection System has Shutdown Engine 1110 
5.3 2 bits Engine Protection System Approaching Shutdown 1109 
5.5 2 bits Engine Protection System Timer Override 1108 
5.7 2 bits Engine Protection System Timer State 1107 
6.7 2 bits Engine Protection System Configuration 1111 
7.1 2 bits Engine Alarm Acknowledge 2815 
7.3 2 bits Engine Alarm Output Command Status 2814 
7.5 2 bits Engine Air Shutoff Command Status 2813 
7.7 2 bits Engine Overspeed Test 2812 
8.1 2 bits Engine Air Shutoff Status 3667 
8.3 2 bits PTO Shutdown has Shutdown Engine 5404 
8.5 2 bits Coolant Level Engine Protection Shutdown Status 5566 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1116 -
PGN 65253 Engine Hours, Revolutions HOURS 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 229 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65253 (0x00FEE5) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-4 4 bytes Engine Total Hours of Operation 247 
5-8 4 bytes Engine Total Revolutions 249 
PGN 65254 Time/Date TD
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 230 PGN Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 65254 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65254 (0x00FEE6) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Seconds 959 
2 1 byte Minutes 960 
3 1 byte Hours 961 
4 1 byte Month 963 
5 1 byte Day 962 
6 1 byte Year 964 
7 1 byte Local minute offset 1601 
8 1 byte Local hour offset 1602 
PGN 65255 Vehicle Hours VH
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 231 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65255 (0x00FEE7) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-4 4 bytes Total Vehicle Hours 246 
5-8 4 bytes Total Power Takeoff Hours 248 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1117 -
PGN 65256 Vehicle Direction/Speed VDS 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 232 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65256 (0x00FEE8) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Compass Bearing 165 
3-4 2 bytes Navigation-Based Vehicle Speed 517 
5-6 2 bytes Pitch 583 
7-8 2 bytes Altitude 580 
PGN 65257 Fuel Consumption (Liquid) LFC 
Engine fuel consumption accumulators. See PGN 64777 for alternate resolution. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 233 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65257 (0x00FEE9) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-4 4 bytes Engine Trip Fuel 182 
5-8 4 bytes Engine Total Fuel Used 250 
PGN 65258 Vehicle Weight VW
NOTE–Request has to be responded to with as many messages as necessary to transmit all available information. 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 234 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65258 (0x00FEEA) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 8 bits Axle Location 928 
2-3 2 bytes Axle Weight 582 
4-5 2 bytes Trailer Weight 180 
6-7 2 bytes Cargo Weight 181 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1118 -
PGN 65259 Component Identification CI 
NOTE - The make, model, serial number and unit number fields in this message are optional and separated by an ASCII 
“*”. It is not necessary to include all fields; however, the delimiter (“*”) is always required. 
Field:
a Make 
Delimiter (ASCII “*”) 
b Model 
Delimiter (ASCII “*”) 
c Serial number 
Delimiter (ASCII “*”) 
d Unit number (Power unit) 
Delimiter (ASCII “*”) 
These examples are permitted uses: 
aaaaa*b...b*c...c*d...d*
*b...b***
*b...b**d...d*
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: Variable 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 235 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65259 (0x00FEEB) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
a Variable - up to 5 
bytes followed by 
an "*" delimiter 
Make 586 
b Variable - up to 
200 bytes 
followed by an "*" 
delimiter
Model 587 
c Variable - up to 
200 bytes 
followed by an "*" 
delimiter
Serial Number 588 
d Variable - up to 
200 bytes 
followed by an "*" 
delimiter
Unit Number (Power Unit) 233 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1119 -
PGN 65260 Vehicle Identification VI 
Byte: 1-n Vehicle Identification Number 
Delimiter (ASCII “*”) 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: Variable 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 236 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65260 (0x00FEEC) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 Variable - up to 
200 bytes 
followed by an "*" 
delimiter
Vehicle Identification Number 237 
PGN 65261 Cruise Control/Vehicle Speed Setup CCSS 
Transmission Repetition Rate: On request 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 237 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65261 (0x00FEED) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Maximum Vehicle Speed Limit 74 
2 1 byte Cruise Control High Set Limit Speed 87 
3 1 byte Cruise Control Low Set Limit Speed 88 
PGN 65262 Engine Temperature 1 ET1 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 238 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65262 (0x00FEEE) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Engine Coolant Temperature 110 
2 1 byte Engine Fuel Temperature 1 174 
3-4 2 bytes Engine Oil Temperature 1 175 
5-6 2 bytes Engine Turbocharger Oil Temperature 176 
7 1 byte Engine Intercooler Temperature 52 
8 1 byte Engine Intercooler Thermostat Opening 1134 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1120 -
PGN 65263 Engine Fluid Level/Pressure 1 EFL/P1 
PGN which identifies parameters that are either measuring various pressures within the engine or identifying engine fluid 
levels
Transmission Repetition Rate: 0.5 s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 239 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65263 (0x00FEEF) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Engine Fuel Delivery Pressure 94 
2 1 byte Engine Extended Crankcase Blow-by Pressure 22 
3 1 byte Engine Oil Level 98 
4 1 byte Engine Oil Pressure 100 
5-6 2 bytes Engine Crankcase Pressure 101 
7 1 byte Engine Coolant Pressure 109 
8 1 byte Engine Coolant Level 111 
PGN 65264 Power Takeoff Information PTO 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 100 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 240 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65264 (0x00FEF0) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Power Takeoff Oil Temperature 90 
2-3 2 bytes Power Takeoff Speed 186 
4-5 2 bytes Power Takeoff Set Speed 187 
6.1 2 bits Engine PTO Governor Enable Switch 980 
6.3 2 bits Engine Remote PTO Governor Preprogrammed Speed Control 
Switch 
979
6.5 2 bits Engine Remote PTO Governor Variable Speed Control Switch 978 
7.1 2 bits Engine PTO Governor Set Switch 984 
7.3 2 bits Engine PTO Governor Coast/Decelerate Switch 983 
7.5 2 bits Engine PTO Governor Resume Switch 982 
7.7 2 bits Engine PTO Governor Accelerate Switch 981 
8.1 2 bits Operator Engine PTO Governor Memory Select Switch 2897 
8.3 2 bits Remote PTO Governor Preprogrammed Speed Control Switch 
#2
3447
8.5 2 bits Auxiliary Input Ignore Switch 3448 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1121 -
(R) PGN 65265 Cruise Control/Vehicle Speed 1 CCVS1 
Cruise Control/Vehicle Speed 1 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 100 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 241 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65265 (0x00FEF1) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits Two Speed Axle Switch 69 
1.3 2 bits Parking Brake Switch 70 
1.5 2 bits Cruise Control Pause Switch 1633 
1.7 2 bits Park Brake Release Inhibit Request 3807 
2-3 2 bytes Wheel-Based Vehicle Speed 84 
4.1 2 bits Cruise Control Active 595 
4.3 2 bits Cruise Control Enable Switch 596 
4.5 2 bits Brake Switch 597 
4.7 2 bits Clutch Switch 598 
5.1 2 bits Cruise Control Set Switch 599 
5.3 2 bits Cruise Control Coast (Decelerate) Switch 600 
5.5 2 bits Cruise Control Resume Switch 601 
5.7 2 bits Cruise Control Accelerate Switch 602 
6 1 byte Cruise Control Set Speed 86 
7.1 5 bits PTO Governor State 976 
7.6 3 bits Cruise Control States 527 
8.1 2 bits Engine Idle Increment Switch 968 
8.3 2 bits Engine Idle Decrement Switch 967 
8.5 2 bits Engine Test Mode Switch 966 
8.7 2 bits Engine Shutdown Override Switch 1237 
(R) PGN 65266 Fuel Economy (Liquid) LFE1 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 100 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 242 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65266 (0x00FEF2) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-2 2 bytes Engine Fuel Rate 183 
3-4 2 bytes Engine Instantaneous Fuel Economy 184 
5-6 2 bytes Engine Average Fuel Economy 185 
7 1 byte Engine Throttle Valve 1 Position 51 
8 1 byte Engine Throttle Valve 2 Position 3673 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1122 -
PGN 65267 Vehicle Position VP
Transmission Repetition Rate: 5 s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 243 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65267 (0x00FEF3) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1-4 4 bytes Latitude 584 
5-8 4 bytes Longitude 585 
PGN 65268 Tire Condition TIRE
Tire Condition Message 
NOTE–Message has to repeated as necessary to transmit all available information. This method of location identification 
requires individual SPNs to be assigned to report failures specific to each individual component (I.e. each tire, each axle, 
etc.).
Transmission Repetition Rate: 10 s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 244 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65268 (0x00FEF4) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 8 bits Tire Location 929 
2 1 byte Tire Pressure 241 
3-4 2 bytes Tire Temperature 242 
5.1 2 bits CTI Wheel Sensor Status 1699 
5.3 2 bits CTI Tire Status 1698 
5.5 2 bits CTI Wheel End Electrical Fault 1697 
6-7 2 bytes Tire Air Leakage Rate 2586 
8.6 3 bits Tire Pressure Threshold Detection 2587 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1123 -
PGN 65269 Ambient Conditions AMB 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 245 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65269 (0x00FEF5) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Barometric Pressure 108 
2-3 2 bytes Cab Interior Temperature 170 
4-5 2 bytes Ambient Air Temperature 171 
6 1 byte Engine Air Intake Temperature 172 
7-8 2 bytes Road Surface Temperature 79 
PGN 65270 Intake/Exhaust Conditions 1 IC1 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 0.5 s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 246 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65270 (0x00FEF6) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Engine Diesel Particulate Filter Intake Pressure 81 
2 1 byte Engine Intake Manifold #1 Pressure 102 
3 1 byte Engine Intake Manifold 1 Temperature 105 
4 1 byte Engine Air Intake Pressure 106 
5 1 byte Engine Air Filter 1 Differential Pressure 107 
6-7 2 bytes Engine Exhaust Gas Temperature 173 
8 1 byte Engine Coolant Filter Differential Pressure 112 
PGN 65271 Vehicle Electrical Power 1 VEP1 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 247 PGN Supporting Information: See Appendix D - PGN 65104 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65271 (0x00FEF7) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Net Battery Current 114 
2 1 byte Alternator Current 115 
3-4 2 bytes Charging System Potential (Voltage) 167 
5-6 2 bytes Battery Potential / Power Input 1 168 
7-8 2 bytes Keyswitch Battery Potential 158 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1124 -
PGN 65272 Transmission Fluids 1 TRF1 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 248 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65272 (0x00FEF8) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Clutch Pressure 123 
2 1 byte Transmission Oil Level 124 
3 1 byte Transmission Filter Differential Pressure 126 
4 1 byte Transmission Oil Pressure 127 
5-6 2 bytes Transmission Oil Temperature 177 
7 1 bytes Transmission Oil Level High / Low 3027 
8.1 4 bits Transmission Oil Level Countdown Timer 3028 
8.5 4 bits Transmission Oil Level Measurement Status 3026 
PGN 65273 Axle Information AI
Axle information message 
NOTE–Message must be repeated as necessary to transmit all available information. This method of location 
identification requires individual SPNs to be assigned to report failures specific to each individual component (I.e. each 
tire, each axle, etc.). 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 249 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65273 (0x00FEF9) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Steering Axle Temperature 75 
2 8 bits Drive Axle Location 930 
3 1 byte Drive Axle Lift Air Pressure 579 
4 1 byte Drive Axle Temperature 578 
5 1 byte Drive Axle Lube Pressure 2613 
8 1 byte Steering Axle Lube Pressure 2614 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1125 -
PGN 65274 Brakes B
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 250 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65274 (0x00FEFA) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Brake Application Pressure 116 
2 1 byte Brake Primary Pressure 117 
3 1 byte Brake Secondary Pressure 118 
4.1 2 bits Parking Brake Actuator 619 
4.3 2 bits Parking Brake Red Warning Signal 3557 
4.5 2 bits Park Brake Release Inhibit Status 3808 
PGN 65275 Retarder fluids RF
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 251 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65275 (0x00FEFB) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Hydraulic Retarder Pressure 119 
2 1 byte Hydraulic Retarder Oil Temperature 120 
3.1 2 bits Driveline Retarder Overheat Indicator 5346 
PGN 65276 Dash Display DD
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 252 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65276 (0x00FEFC) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Washer Fluid Level 80 
2 1 byte Fuel Level 1 96 
3 1 byte Engine Fuel Filter Differential Pressure 95 
4 1 byte Engine Oil Filter Differential Pressure 99 
5-6 2 bytes Cargo Ambient Temperature 169 
7 1 byte Fuel Level 2 38 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1126 -
PGN 65277 Alternate Fuel 1 A1
Transmission Repetition Rate: 500 ms 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 253 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65277 (0x00FEFD) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Engine Blower Bypass Valve Position 72 
2-3 2 bytes Engine Gas Supply Pressure 159 
PGN 65278 Auxiliary Water Pump Pressure AWPP 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 1 s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 254 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65278 (0x00FEFE) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1 1 byte Auxiliary Pump Pressure 73 
PGN 65279 Water in Fuel Indicator WFI 
Transmission Repetition Rate: 10 s 
Data Length: 8 
Extended Data Page: 0 
Data Page: 0 
PDU Format: 254 
PDU Specific: 255 PGN Supporting Information: 
Default Priority: 6 
Parameter Group Number: 65279 (0x00FEFF) 
Start Position Length Parameter Name SPN 
1.1 2 bits Water In Fuel Indicator 97 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1127 -
APPENDIX D 
SUPPORTING INFORMATION 
(R) SPN 16 – Fuel Filter (Suction Side) Differential Pressure 
FIGURE SPN16_A - FUEL SYSTEM WITH RAILS 
FIGURE SPN16_B - FUEL SYSTEM WITH PUMP
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1128 -
SPN 27 – EGR System Diagram 
FIGURE SPN27_A – EGR SYSTEM 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1129 -
SPN 512 – Driver’s Demand Engine – Percent Torque 
Figure SPN512_A and Figure SPN512_B show two typical torque calculations in an engine controller. On the left side of 
the figures there are single engine controller functions. The output torque signals of these functions are connected in the 
manner shown. The result is the actual engine percent torque which is realized by the engine. 
TSC1 Control Purpose
P1
P2 P3 P4
Px
Accerator Pedal
Driver Input
Cruise Control
PTO Governor
Road Speed Governor
Idle Governor (includes
frictional loss)
Engine Protection
Loss torque of the
engine & accessories
Max Min
P1
P2
P3
P4
Control
Mode
Override control mode priority
Torque/Speed Control Message
Max Min Actual Engine - % Tq
Nominal friction - % torque
Remarks:
1) Control modes are defined in text
2) Powertrain demand % torque is used to calculate
the engine's desired operating speed
3) Control purpose 0 is used for intermittent
powertrain control
P32
Powertrain Demand
% torque
Engine's desire operating speed
Control modes
- Normal
- Speed Control
- Torque Control
- Speed/Torque Limit Control
(Speed and speed limit control
are not shown in this figure)
Control purposes
P1: Accelerator Pedal/Operator Selection
P2: Cruise Control
P3: PTO Governor
P4: Road Speed Governor
P5: Engine Protection
P6 – P31: SAE Reserved
P32: Temporary Powertrain Control
Full load governor
Smoke Control
P5
FIGURE SPN512_A - TORQUE COMMANDS AND CALCULATIONS WHEN A “MAXIMUM 
SELECTION FOR LOW IDLE” TECHNIQUE IS USED 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1130 -
WITH LOW IDLE TECHNIQUE IS USED 
 On top of the figures, external torque commands (e.g., traction and transmission control) can control the engine. These 
commands can influence the engine torque by four control modes. Four engine internal signals are transmitted to the 
network: 
 a. Drivers demand engine - percent torque 
 b. Actual engine - percent torque 
 c. Nominal friction - percent torque 
 d. Engine's desired operating speed 
 The difference between Figure SPN512_A and Figure SPN512_B is the connection of the idle governor output to the torque 
calculation. In Figure SPN512_A there is a maximum selection, while in Figure SPN512_B a summation is used. The 
summation method needs a subtraction point for each external command input because the starting point of an ASR or a 
shift operation should be the present actual engine - percent torque value. As the actual engine - percent torque signal 
contains the idle governor output and the external commands are compared with the drivers demand engine - percent torque 
or the powertrain demand which don't contain the idle governor output, the external commands must be subtracted by the 
idle governor output to get the correct signals for comparison. 
The advantage of the maximum selection (Figure SPN512_A) is that no other speed controller can work parallel to the idle 
governor. This allows for a better optimization of the different speed control loops. The advantage of the summation method 
(Figure SPN512_B) is that changes of the idle governor output influence the engine directly (no dead zones exist). 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1131 -
SPN 518 – Engine Requested Torque/Torque Limit 
When preparing to send a request to a retarder, the states of the Retarder Enable - Shift Assist Switch and the Retarder 
Enable - Brake Assist Switch must be checked by the requesting device to determine whether the request may be sent to 
the Retarder. Figure SPN518_A shows how those switches and other operator and network inputs are used to create the 
actual retarder operating point on a system-wide basis. The Retarder may or may not be the device reading the actual 
switches; even if it is, it will not accept or reject a request based on its knowledge of the switch states. Its function is to
send the switch states via J1939 (in its ERC1 message) and it expects other J1939 nodes to honor those switch states by 
refraining from sending inappropriate commands. 
Several elements affect the retarder besides the Requested Torque parameter in the TSC1 message. These elements 
are not looked at by the retarder itself, but are used by various other devices to determine if they may ask the retarder to 
be engaged. These are the Retarder Enable Shift Assist Switch, and the Retarder Enable Brake Assist Switch. The 
relationship between those switches and the retarder (as well as that between the operator and retarder) is described in 
Figure SPN518_A. 
FIGURE SPN518_A - RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN OPERATOR/SWITCH INPUTS AND RETARDERS 
Max
Velocity 
constant 
braking
Intended Retarder Percent Torque 
(spn 1085)
Drivers Demand Retarder – Percent
Torque (spn 1715)
Retarder ECU
Retarder Selection, non-engine 
(spn 1716)
Driver Interface
Retarder
Selection, nonengine (spn 1716)
J1939 Device(s)
TSC 
Schedule 
Slip 
Control
Max
Min
Min
Retarder
Internal
Retarder
Control
Retarder 
Actuator
Actual Maximum Available Retarder –
Percent Torque (spn 1717)
Actual Retarder - Percent Torque 
(spn 520)
Retarder Enable -
Brake Assist 
Switch (spn 571)
Retarder Enable -
Shift Assist Switch 
(spn 572)
TSC1
(destination
retarder) 
message 
construction
Retarder Configuration
(pgn 65249) Brake pedal 
position (spn 521)
Engine Retarder
Selection (spn 973)
Engine Retarder Selection 
(spn 973)
Retarder Torque Mode 
(spn 900)
EBS
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1132 -
Tables SPN518_A and SPN518_B identify many use cases. Each row is the summary of one or more uses. One of the 
primary communications provided by these tables is that the retarder can be activated by the J1939 TSC1 message, 
although the operator input is off. 
TABLE SPN518_A PRIMARY RETARDER – BEFORE TRANSMISSION 
 (Compression Release Engine Retarder)
Operator Inputs Outputs
J1939
Inputs1
(TSC1)
Cruise
Control2
Accel
Pedal3
Torque Request 
Via "Retarder 
Selection, Engine"4
May Retarder 
Provide Brake 
Torque?
Retarder Torque 
Mode (base 2) 
T Any Any Any No 0000 
R Any Any Any Yes > 0001 
NTR Any T Any No 0000 
NTR R ZR R Yes > 0001 
NTR R ZR ZR Yes 0010 
NTR NTR ZR R5 Yes5 0001 
NTR NTR ZR ZR No 0000 
ZR Any Any Any No 0000 
Key:
T = request positive Torque
R = request Retarder torque 
NTR = No Torque Request 
ZR = Zero torque Requested by retarder 
Any = This value has no bearing whether or not the Retarder is available. The retarder will NOT be available because 
some other entity is requesting positive torque. 
Footnotes:
1. Note that the TSC1 inputs will override Operator Torque Selection. The J1939 devices that generate the TSC1 
messages will assure that the Retarder Enable Brake Assist Switch and Retarder Enable Shift Assist Switch are 
enabled as appropriate before commanding the Retarder to engage. See parameters SPN 571 and 572 for 
descriptions of these switches. Also, for the purposes of this table, it is assumed that if the TSC1, Destination 
Retarder message is requesting Retarder Torque, no other TSC1, Destination Engine messages are requesting 
engine fueling. That arbitration is beyond the scope of this section. 
2. This refers to the torque requested by the cruise control, and does not refer to the cruise switches. Cruise control is 
defined to be on and engaged in this column. The cruise control should not request retarder torque unless the 
Retarder Enable - Brake Assist Switch is enabled. 
3. The Accelerator Pedal is inherently incapable of requesting negative torque. It may have no particular torque 
demands, or it may request some engine fueling, which prevents the retarder from engaging. Consequently, the chart 
is complete even though no rows exist for the AP to request retarder torque. 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1133 -
4. The Operator Torque Request is incapable of requesting positive torque. The table is complete without the Operator 
Torque Request asking for positive Engine Torque 
5. This description assumes no other switch (such as brake pedal depressed) is needed in order for the operator torque 
request to initiate retarder braking. Other implementation specific rules would apply if such a catalyst were needed. 
Table SPN518_B shows the relationship between various inputs and an after engine retarder.
The biggest difference between this type of retarder and an engine brake is that the exhaust brake may be engaged while 
the engine is still being fueled. Also, if cruise control is communicating with the retarder, it would do so using the TSC1 
message. 
Consequently, columns for accelerator pedal input and cruise control input would only serve to confuse the issue of 
retarder availability in Table SPN518_B. 
TABLE SPN518_B PRIMARY RETARDER – AFTER ENGINE (EXHAUST BRAKE, HYDRAULIC RETARDER)
Operator Inputs Outputs 
J1939
Inputs1
(TSC1)
Torque Request 
Via operator torque 
request2
May Retarder 
Provide Brake 
Torque?
Retarder Torque 
Mode (base 2) 
 R R Yes > 0001 
R ZR Yes > 0001 
NTR R3 Yes3 0001 
NTR ZR No 0000 
ZR Any No 0000 
Key: 
R = request Retarder torque - some amount of braking torque is requested of the retarder. 
ZR = Zero Retarder request - Zero percent torque is requested of the retarder 
NTR = No retarder Torque Request - No request is being made of the retarder one way or another. 
Any = This value has no bearing whether or not the retarder is available. In fact, because of what some other entity is 
requesting, the retarder will NOT be available. 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1134 -
Footnotes: 
1. Note that the TSC1 inputs will override Operator Torque Selection. The J1939 devices that generate the TSC1 
messages will assure that the Retarder Enable Brake Assist Switch and Retarder Enable Shift Assist Switch are 
enabled before commanding the Retarder to engage. Also, for the purposes of this table, it is assumed that if the 
TSC1, Destination Retarder message is requesting Retarder Torque, no other TSC1, Destination Engine messages 
are requesting engine fueling. That arbitration is beyond the scope of this section. 
2. The Operator Torque Request is incapable of requesting positive torque. The table is complete without the Operator 
Torque Request asking for positive Engine Torque 
3. This description assumes no other switch (such as brake pedal depressed) is needed in order for the operator torque 
request to initiate retarder braking. Other implementation specific rules would apply if such a requirement were 
needed. 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1135 -
SPN 519 – Desired Operating Speed Asymmetry Adjustment 
FIGURE SPN519_A DESIRED OPERATING SPEED ASYMMETRY ADJUSTMENT 
Engine speed
A X B
600 1100 1600 2100
Lines of Constant
Fuel Consumption
Engine's desired speed for current
operating conditions.
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1136 -
SPN 527 – Cruise Control States
TABLE SPN527_A CRUISE CONTROL STATES 
Bit States Cruise Control State 
000 Off/Disabled 
001 Hold 
010 Accelerate 
011 Decelerate/Coast 
100 Resume 
101 Set 
110 Accelerator override 
111 Not available 
State Descriptions: 
000b Off/Disabled Used to indicate that the cruise control device is off or on standby. Note that the cruise control 
system switch does not necessarily have to be off to be in this mode. 
001b Hold Used to indicate that the cruise control device is active and currently maintaining a captured operating 
speed.
010b Accelerate Used to indicate that the cruise control device is in the process of ramping up the operating speed. 
011b Decelerate Used to indicate that the cruise control device is in the process of ramping down, or coasting, the 
operating speed. 
100b Resume Used to indicate that the cruise control device is in the process of resuming the operating speed to a 
previously captured value. 
101b Set Used to indicate that the cruise control device is establishing the current vehicle speed as the operating 
speed (captured value). 
110b Accelerator Override Used to indicate that the cruise control device is active but not currently maintaining the 
captured operating speed. 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1137 -
SPN 564 – Differential Lock Positions 
FIGURE SPN564_A DIFFERENTIAL LOCK POSITIONS 
Engine
Transfer Case
Central
Inter-Axle
Rear
Inter-Axle
Front
Rear Axle
2
Rear Axle
1
Front Axle
2
Front Axle
1
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1138 -
SPN 574 – Shift in Process 
FIGURE SPN574_A SHIFT IN PROCESS 
Typical sequence:
Shift in process:
Vehicle control:
Priority level:
Engine Control
Initiated
Pull to
Neutral
Sync.
Engine
Gear
Engage
Engine Control
Completed
11 01 01 01 11
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1139 -
SPN 590 – Idle Shutdown 
 
FIGURE SPN590_A IDLE SHUTDOWN (IS)
Condition 1 - When the IS Timer Override is inactive, the IS Timer State will become inactive if the conditions for 
shutdown no longer exist before the “X” time interval has expired or IS Driver Alert Mode is activated. 
Condition 2 - When the IS Timer Override is inactive, the IS Timer State will become inactive if the conditions for 
shutdown no longer exist before the IS Driver Alert Mode “Y” time interval has expired. 
Condition 3 - When the IS Timer Override is inactive, then the IS has Shutdown Engine will be active after the “Y” time 
interval has expired. 
Condition 4 - When the IS Timer Override is active during the “Y” time interval, then the IS feature shall be overridden and 
will no longer be available until the system has been re-initated.
NOTE —0 State – Inactive, disabled in calibration, or conditions for idle shutdown do not exist. 
1 State – Active, enabled in calibration, or conditions for idle shutdown do exist. 
Idle Shutdown (IS)
IS Timer Function
IS Timer Override
Conditions for Shutdown
IS Timer State
IS Driver Alert Mode
IS has Shutdown Engine
--X- --Y-- --X- --Y- --X-- --Y--
Condition
1
Condition
2
Condition
3
Condition
4
Feature has been
Overridden
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1140 -
SPN 695 – Engine Override Control Mode 
FIGURE SPN695_A TORQUE/SPEED CONTROL PRIORITY SELECTION LOGIC
More
than one message in 
the queue? 
Complete message validation 
and execute message 
Discard loser of arbitration. 
Return to start. 
Different 
Source address? Use the latest commanded value 
Message with lower absolute 
torque limit wins 
Torque
limits the same? 
Oldest message wins 
What 
message override 
control mode? 
Select the Speed / torque control 
over the speed/torque limit message. 
If one is speed control and the other 
torque control then select the oldest
Messages of 
the same override 
control mode? 
Higher priority message wins 
Two 
message priorities the 
same?
Message with lower speed limit 
and commanded torque limit wins 
Speed
Limits the same? 
Oldest message wins 
Start
• Torque/speed override modes that have timed out are discarded before the 
priority selection process is executed. 
• Messages are stored in the order received on the data link with the messages 
received first, referred to as the oldest, stored at the top of the priority selection 
queue.
• The focus in this diagram is on the message priority selection. Other message 
disposition issued are ignored in this context. 
No
Both are 
speed/torque
control
No
No
No
No
No
…… .. 
Message 
Queue
 Oldest or 
active 
control
device 
 Newest 
……..
Both are 
Speed/torque limit
Yes No
Exit this TSC1 
Selection Logic 
TSC1 
Control Purpose 
(SPN 3350)=111112
(P32) 
Temporary Powertrain Control Purpose 
(original use of TSC1) 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1141 -
SPN 899 – Engine/Retarder Torque Modes 
TABLE SPN899_A ENGINE/RETARDER TORQUE MODES 
Bit States Engine/Retarder Torque Mode
0000 Low idle governor/no request (default mode) 
0001 Accelerator pedal/operator selection 
0010 Cruise control 
0011 PTO governor 
0100 Road speed governor 
0101 ASR control 
0110 Transmission control 
0111 ABS control 
1000 Torque limiting 
1001 High speed governor 
1010 Braking system 
1011 Remote accelerator 
1100 Service procedure 
1101 not defined 
1110 Other 
1111 Not available 
State Descriptions: 
0000b Low Idle Governor/No request (Default mode) - This mode is active if the accelerator pedal (not necessarily the 
torque output of the driver input, see Figure SPN512_A and Figure SPN512_B) is zero. This is the default mode. At low 
speed, the low idle governor may be active while at higher speed, it is zero. 
0001b Accelerator Pedal - This mode is active if the accelerator pedal position is active (being followed). This mode is 
active for the retarder if it is turned on by the operator. Note that it may be disabled by the accelerator pedal or clutch 
switches (operator selection). 
0010b Cruise Control - This mode is active if cruise control is active and greater than the accelerator pedal request. 
0011b PTO Governor - This mode is active if the PTO governor is active. 
0100b Road Speed Governing - Indicates that road speed governing is active and limiting torque. 
0101b ASR Control - Indicates that the ASR command is active (Speed, Torque, or Speed/Torque Limit Control). 
0110b Transmission Control - Indicates that the transmission command is active (Speed, Torque, or Speed/Torque Limit 
Control). 
0111b ABS Control - Indicates that the ABS is controlling torque. 
1000b Torque Limiting - This mode is active if the demanded or commanded engine torque is limited by internal logic due 
to full load, smoke and/or emissions control, engine protection and/or other factors. A reduced torque limit may be 
necessary for engine protection if the engine temperature is too high or a sensor fails (speed, timing, or boost pressure), 
as examples. 
1001b High Speed Governor - This mode is active if the engine is controlled by the high speed governor due to normal 
operation. 
1010b Brake System (Electronic) - This indicates that the brake pedal is controlling the torque. Note that this may include 
enabling of the retarder when the brake pedal is depressed (touched). 
Note that if there is a request to the retarder but operating conditions do not allow braking, this situation will be reflected
by the Percent Retarder Torque = 0 when broadcast. 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1142 -
1011b Remote Accelerator - This mode is active if the remote accelerator is controlling engine speed. 
1100b Service procedure - This mode is active if the engine is operating in a specific service mode. For example, fuel 
injection may be disabled to allow a service procedure to crank the engine without fuel injection occurring. 
1110b Other - Torque control by a type of device which is different than those defined in states 0000b to 1100b. 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1143 -
SPN 901 – Retarder Type
TABLE SPN901_A RETARDER TYPES 
Bit States Retarder Type
0000 Electric/Magnetic 
0001 Hydraulic 
0010 Cooled Friction 
0011 Compression Release (Engine retarder) 
0100 Exhaust 
0101-1101 Not defined 
1110 Other 
1111 Not available 
Electric/Magnetic Retarder - The electric/magnetic retarder functions by creating eddy currents generated in a conductive 
armature when placed in a variable magnetic field. Currently, electric retarders have a stator on which field coils are 
mounted. The rotors, mounted on both sides of the drive shaft, are ribbed for heat dissipation. In order to brake the 
vehicle, voltage is applied to the field coils which generate a magnetic field inducing eddy currents in the rotors as they 
pass through the field. Magnetic retarders use a permanent magnet to generate the eddy currents. Braking-torque is 
dependent on stator excitation and on the air gap between the rotor and the stator. 
Hydraulic Retarder - The hydraulic retarder is a hydrodynamic coupling device. Two impellers which face each other, a 
rotor and a stator, are filled with oil. When the rotor, which is connected to the vehicle drive shaft rotates, it drives the oil
in the direction of rotation. The mechanical energy produced by the rotor is converted into kinetic energy in the operating 
fluid. Hydrodynamic coupling between the rotor and stator converts the kinetic energy into heat and the rotor is retarded. 
 This retardation effect is transmitted to the drive shaft and the vehicle is retarded. 
Cooled Friction Brake - The cooled friction brake uses air or hydraulic fluid to dissipate heat from the friction surface of the 
service brake. By controlling the friction surface temperature, retarding torque is improved, along with a reduced rate of 
wear.
Compression Release Engine Retarder - The compression release engine retarder converts a power-producing diesel 
engine into a power-absorbing retarding mechanism by opening the exhaust valve near the top dead center in the engine 
compression cycle. No positive power will be produced, since the compressed air mass is released. The vehicle is 
retarded as it must provide energy to compress the cylinder air charge and subsequently to return the piston to the bottom 
position.
Exhaust Brake - The exhaust brake restricts the escape of the exhaust gas from the exhaust manifold. Each succeeding 
exhaust stroke builds up a back pressure in the manifold which exerts a retarding effect to the pistons during the exhaust 
stroke. The engine turns against this back pressure creating a braking effect to the vehicle. 
Auxiliary Retarder - Fans, air conditioners, or any power-absorbing device in the vehicle can also function as retarders as 
they impose parasitic loading on the engine or vehicle. 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1144 -
SPN 911 – Service Component Identification 
TABLE SPN911_A SERVICE COMPONENT IDENTIFICATION
 Identification Component 
0 Service check for entire vehicle 
1 Brake lining; left front axle 
2 Brake lining; right front axle 
3 Brake lining; left rear axle 
4 Brake lining; right rear axle 
5 Clutch lining 
6-10 Not defined 
11 Brake lining; left rear axle #2 
12 Brake lining; right rear axle #2 
13 Brake lining; left rear axle #3 
14 Brake lining; right rear axle #3 
15 Brake lining: general 
16 Regulated general check for entire vehicle 
17 Brake system special check 
18 In-between check 
19 Check trip recorder 
20 Check exhaust gas 
21 Check vehicle speed limiter 
22-29 Not defined 
30 Engine coolant change 
31 Engine coolant filter change 
 32 Engine oil engine #1 
 33 Engine oil engine #2 
34 Not defined 
35 Steering oil 
36 Not defined 
 37 Transmission oil transmission #1 
 38 Transmission oil transmission #2 
39 Not defined 
40 Intermediate transmission oil 
41 Not defined 
42 Front axle oil 
43 Rear axle oil 
44-47 Not defined 
 48 Tires 
49 Engine air filter 
50 Engine oil filter 
51 Engine Fuel Filter 
52-60 Not defined 
 61 Tachograph 
62 Driver card #1 
63 Driver card #2 
(R) 64-70 Not defined 
(R) 71 Diesel Particulate Filter 1 Ash 
(R) 72 Diesel Particulate Filter 2 Ash 
(R) 73-239 Not defined 
240-249 Manufacturer specific 
 250-251 Reserved 
252 Reset all components 
253 No action to be taken 
 254 Error 
255 Component identification not available 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1145 -
SPN 988 – Trip Group 1 
TABLE SPN988_A TRIP GROUP 1 
Parameter SPN 
Trip distance 244 
Trip fuel 182 
High resolution trip distance 918 
Trip compression brake distance 990 
Trip service brake applications 993 
Trip maximum engine speed 1013 
Trip average engine speed 1014 
Trip drive average load factor 1015 
Trip average fuel rate 1029 
Trip average fuel rate (Gaseous) 1031 
 Aftertreatment 1 Trip Fuel Used 3733 
 Aftertreatment 1 Trip Active Regeneration Time 3734 
 Aftertreatment 1 Trip Disabled Time 3735 
 Aftertreatment 1 Trip Number of Active Regenerations 3736 
 Aftertreatment 1 Trip Passive Regeneration Time 3737 
 Aftertreatment 1 Trip Number of Passive Regenerations 3738 
 Aftertreatment 1 Trip Number of Active Regeneration Inhibit Requests 3739 
 Aftertreatment 1 Trip Number of Active Regeneration Manual Requests 3740 
 Aftertreatment 2 Trip Fuel Used 3741 
 Aftertreatment 2 Trip Active Regeneration Time 3742 
 Aftertreatment 2 Trip Disabled Time 3743 
 Aftertreatment 2 Trip Number of Active Regenerations 3744 
 Aftertreatment 2 Trip Passive Regeneration Time 3745 
 Aftertreatment 2 Trip Number of Passive Regenerations 3746 
 Aftertreatment 2 Trip Number of Active Regeneration Inhibit Requests 3747 
 Aftertreatment 2 Trip Number of Active Regeneration Manual Requests 3748 
Parameter Group PGN 
 
 Aftertreatment 2 Trip Information 64888 
 Aftertreatment 1 Trip Information 64889 
Trip time information #2 65200 
Trip time information #1 65204 
Trip shutdown information 65205 
Trip vehicle speed/cruise distance information 65206 
Trip fuel information (Gaseous) 65208 
Trip fuel information 65209 
Trip distance information 65210 
Trip fan information 65211 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1146 -
SPN 1014 – Trip Average Engine Speed
The equation is as follows: 
Trip average engine speed
RPM i
N
i
N
( )
0 (Eq.SPN1014_A) 
where:
RPM is the engine speed at sample i, N is the number of samples of engine speed and is proportional to the current trip 
elapsed time 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1147 -
SPN 1085 – Intended Retarder Percent Torque 
FIGURE SPN1085_A INTENDED RETARDER PERCENT TORQUE 
0
20
40
60
80
100
0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 1.2 1.4 1.6 1.8 2.0
Time (s)
Intended Retarder Torque
Actual - Retarder Torque
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1148 -
SPN 1107 – Engine Protection System Timer State 
FIGURE SPN1107_A ENGINE PROTECTION SYSTEM (EPS) 
Condition 1 – When the EPS Timer Override is inactive, the EPS Timer State will become inactive if the conditions for 
shutdown no longer exist before the "X" time interval has expired or EPS Approaching Shutdown is activated. 
Condition 2 – When the EPS Timer Override is inactive and conditions for shutdown exist during the "Y" time interval, 
then the Engine will shutdown, even though shutdown conditions subside before the "Y" time interval has expired. 
Condition 3 – When the EPS Timer Override is active, then the EPS feature shall be overridden allowing for an engine 
failure when the "Z" time interval has expired. 
Condition 4 – When the EPS Timer Override is active and then allowed to go inactive during the "Y" time interval, the 
response by the EPS shall be the same as condition 2. The time intervals for "X" and "Y" shall always start when 
conditions for shutdown first commence regardless whether the EPS Timer Override is enabled or not. 
NOTE: 0 State – Inactive, disabled in calibration, or conditions for Engine Protection do not exist. 
1 State – Active, enabled in calibration, or conditions for Engine Protection do exist. 
Engine Protection System (EPS)
EPS Timer Function
Conditions for Shutdown
EPS Timer State
EPS Approaching Shutdown
EPS has Shutdown Engine
EPS Timer Override
Condition
1
Condition
2
--X- --YCondition 3
Engine Failure
--X- --Y- --ZCondition
4
--X- --Y-
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1149 -
SPN 1734 – Nominal Level Front Axle 
FIGURE SPN1734_A: EXAMPLE FOR NOMINAL LEVELS
If the vehicle height, to be controlled by the ASC, is not within the tolerances of the defined nominal levels, the nominal 
level is set to not specified. 
The defined vehicle heights can be activated via the ASC 2 (PGN: 53760) message or via a remote control (see figure 
SPN1734_B). The remote control is an external unit to operate the suspension system. 
lower level
upper level
normal level 3
preset level
normal level 1
normal level 2
customer level
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1150 -
FIGURE SPN1734_B: POSSIBLE INTEGRATION OF ASC SYSTEM INTO VEHICLE NETWORK 
An example: The nominal level is the normal level 1. Via remote control a new nominal level (for instance upper level) is 
requested. The nominal level is then set to upper level and during the height modification the ASC is indicating that the 
actual level is below nominal level until the upper level is reached. 
CAN SAE J1939
Dashboard or
Central board computer:
sends ASC 2 and 6,
receives ASC 1, 3, 4 , 5
Air suspension system:
sends ASC 1, 3, 4, 5,
receives ASC 2 and 6
Remote control
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1151 -
(R) SPN 1761 - Aftertreatment System Diagram 
SPN SPN Name SPN SPN Name
1761 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 1 Level 4344 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Line Heater 3 State
3031 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 1 Temperature 4346 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Line Heater 4 State
3361 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Dosing Unit 4350 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Requested Quantity of Integrator
3362 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Dosing Unit Input Lines 4354 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Line Heater 1 Request
3363 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 1 Heater 4355 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Line Heater 2 Request
3364 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 1 Quality 4356 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Line Heater 3 Request
3515 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Temperature 2 4357 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Line Heater 4 Request
3516 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Concentration 4358 Aftertreatment 1 SCR Exhaust Gas Differential Pressure
3517 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank Level 2 4360 Aftertreatment 1 SCR Catalyst Intake Gas Temperature
3518 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Conductivity 4363 Aftertreatment 1 SCR Catalyst Outlet Gas Temperature
3521 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Property 4367 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 2 Level
4333 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Actual Quantity of Integrator 4368 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 2 Temperature
4334 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Doser Absolute Pressure 4369 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 2 Level 2
4335 Aftertreatment 1 SCR Dosing Air Assist Absolute Pressure 4372 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Tank 2 Heater
4336 Aftertreatment 1 SCR Dosing Air Assist Valve 4374 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Pump Motor Speed
4337 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Dosing Temperature 4375 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Pump Drive Percentage
4340 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Line Heater 1 State 4376 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Return Valve
4342 Aftertreatment 1 Diesel Exhaust Fluid Line Heater 2 State
FIGURE SPN1761 – Example Aftertreatment System Schematic 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1152 -
SPN 2432 – Engine Demand - Percent Torque 
Background:
During periods of TSC#1 engine control, other devices on the J1939 network may wish to know where the engine wants 
to go once it is released from TSC#1 control. In order for option transitions of driveline torque between different devices, 
it becomes necessary to understand the engine’s desired torque for all phases of a TSC#1 control sequence. 
 Driver’s Demand Engine – Percent Torque (SPN 512) provides a partial prediction of the torque the engine wishes to 
produce after a TSC#1 command is removed. Included in Driver’s Demand Torque are external requestors to the 
powertrain such as accelerator pedal, cruise control, and road speed limit governors. However, excluded from DDT are 
(1) dynamic commands within the powertrain such as smoke control, noise control, and low and high speed engine 
governing, and (2) external TSC#1 commands to the engine such as those generated by traction control, unless SPN 
3350 in the received TSC1 message is equal to P1 (Accelerator Pedal / Operator Selection), P2 (Cruise Control), P3 
(PTO Governor), or P4 (Road Speed Governor). Since those control purposes originate from the driver, they shall be 
included in the calculation of DDT. 
For a controller to properly determine the engine’s desired output torque during a TSC#1 sequence, it needs knowledge 
of the torque being scheduled by all active controls within the engine. Since DDT excludes many of these active 
controllers from its calculation, it cannot be used to accurately predict the desired output torque. The effects of the 
external TSC#1 commands can be approximated by other devices by means of monitoring TSC#1 messages to the 
engine; however the effects of the engine’s internal dynamic commands are completely unknown and cannot be 
estimated.
Actual Engine – Percent Torque (SPN 513) provides a window to the engine’s desired torque output when no TSC#1 
commands are actively controlling the engine. However, when the engine is responding to TSC#1 commands, the Actual 
Engine – Percent Torque parameter is no longer indicative of the torque that the engine will produce once those TSC#1 
commands are removed.
In simplest terms, Engine Demand – Percent Torque (or “EDT”) contains the engine’s internal dynamic commands that 
are excluded from the Driver’s Demand Engine – Percent Torque definition, including smoke control, noise control, and 
low and high speed governing. With this additional piece of information, devices on the network that are controlling the 
engine via TSC#1 messages can determine the torque direction of the engine once the current TSC#1 command is 
relinquished.
It is important to note that the proposed EDT parameter is used as information. The addition of the EDT parameter 
should in no way cause a change to the engine’s actual torque command architecture. 
EDT Calculation: 
When no devices are controlling the engine via TSC#1 messages, the value of EDT is equal to the Actual Engine – 
Percent Torque parameter. When the engine is being controlled via a TSC#1 message, it is necessary for the engine 
controller to calculate what its’ target torque would be if there were no external commands being received. This “runner 
up” in engine control will come from internal dynamic engine commands. 
In the calculation of Actual Engine – Percent Torque, the output of the engine’s idle governor must be considered, along 
with the impact of the engine’s full load governor, smoke controls and other internal limiting logic. In the determination of 
the Engine Demand Torque parameter, these same engine logic components are needed, as indicated in Figure SPN 
2432_A. However, there is a significant difference: These components only affect the Actual Engine – Percent Torque 
parameter determination if they are the component actively controlling the engine. In EDT, any of these components will 
be used to calculate EDT if they are the “runner up” for engine control. Even though these components may lose in the 
engine’s internal control arbitration, the engine output torque that they would produce if in command needs to be found to 
determine EDT. 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1153 -
FIGURE SPN2432_A – TORQUE COMMANDS AND CALCULATIONS WHEN A “MAXIMUM LOW IDLE” TECHNIQUE 
IS USED 
If speed governors are involved in determining these components of the EDT calculation, any of the following 3 special 
cases may need to be addressed: 
Special Case #1: Speed Governors 
If the engine governor referenced in Figure SPN2432_A is a speed-based governor instead of a throttle table 
arrangement, a new challenge is presented in determining EDT. Since the speed governor output is directly influenced 
by the TSC#1 command in control (for example, integrator anti-windup logic), the speed governor’s output during TSC#1 
commands cannot be used to calculate EDT.
Instead, an approximation of the speed governor output without the effects of any TSC#1 commands is required for use in 
the EDT calculation. “Approximation” refers to removing the effects of integrator terms and any other dynamic 
components that result from the controlling TSC#1 commands. All elements affecting the speed governor reference 
should be included before the reference is translated into terms of torque. 
All control algorithms with dynamic elements (e.g., speed governors) that execute during TSC#1 commands need to have 
their outputs replaced by “steady-state” approximations for use in the EDT calculation. Again note that these 
approximations are for use only in the EDT calculation; the actual engine control logic remains unchanged. 
Figure SPN2432_B illustrates EDT and speed governor output during a typical control sequence. The output of the 
speed governor may tend to lag the engine’s torque trace during and after the TSC#1 command sequence. Note 
however that the TSC#1’s influence is not factored into EDT; only when the command sequence ends or is no longer 
winning in terms of engine control arbitration do the dynamic effects of the speed governor(s) appear in the EDT signal.
Engine governor
(throttl e or s peed)
Cruise or PTO
gover nor
Max
Road speed
gover nor
Min Control mode
TSC#1 fr om any
source address
Max Min Actual engine % torque
Driver's demand % torque
Powertrain
demand %
torque
Max Min Engine demand % torque
Idle governor
(including fricti on
loss)
Full load governor
Smoke control
Noise control
Engine's desired operating speed
Override
control
mode
priority
TSC#1 contr ol modes
- Normal
- Speed control
- Torque control
- Speed/torque limit contr ol
 (not shown in this figure)
Remar ks:
1) Contr ol modes ar e defined in section 4.2.3.1
2) Powertrai n demand % torque is used to
 calculate the engine's desired operating speed
3) Black boxes ar e engine controller functi ons
Inter nal
components of
EDT
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1154 -
Time
EDT reflects the equivalent
torque of the actual speed
governor output when the
external device is no longer
winning engine control.
Speed governor
approximations for EDT
do not reflect the effects
of the TSC#1 command.
Speed Governor Output Approximation for VDT
Vehicle Demand Torque
Speed Governor Output
TSC#1 Torque Limit
FIGURE SPN2432_B – EDT AND SPEED GOVERNOR OUTPUT RELATIONSHIP DURING A CONTROL SEQUENCE 
One method of converting the speed governor reference to torque is shown in Figure SPN2432_C. The inputs of current 
engine speed, accelerator pedal position and the shape of the governor droop curves can be used to find the equivalent 
torque output of the governor. A lookup table or calculation could be used.
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1155 -
FIGURE SPN2432_C - FINDING EDT TORQUE APPROXIMATION FOR A SPEED GOVERNOR 
Special Case #2: “Steep” or zero droop speed governors 
Using a steady-state approximation with a “steep” or zero droop speed governor can cause large EDT changes over 
small speed changes. For example, if a cruise control governor has a zero droop and the vehicle speed is just below the 
cruise set speed, the steady-state torque approximation using the method described previously is very large. If vehicle 
speed increases a small amount to above the cruise set speed, the steady-state torque approximation becomes very 
small or zero. 
As a result, a more accurate steady-state torque approximation is needed when steep droop governors are involved. A 
steep droop speed governor is defined as having a droop slope greater than 0.2% actual torque per rpm as seen below in 
Figure SPN2432_D. 
The following method can be used to determine a steady-state torque approximation for steep or zero droop governors 
with fast responding integrator anti-windup / integrator resetting: 
Upon a TSC#1 message actively controlling engine torque, save the last value of torque commanded by the speed 
governor ( SGo) and the last value of speed governor error ( SGo).
During this control sequence, calculate speed governor error ( SGi)
Calculate an estimated torque for EDT determination use: SGestimated = SGo + KpSG * ( SGo- SGi )
where KpSG is the speed governor proportional gain 
Lines of constant
accelerator pedal
position (droop curves)
Engine Speed
Full load governor Example operating point
(torque curve)
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1156 -
FIGURE SPN2432_D - EXAMPLE OF "STEEP DROOP" SPEED GOVERNOR 
Special Case #3: “Slow Response” Speed Governors 
If the speed governor dynamic elements are slow to respond to a 1 second torque derate, then the speed governor can 
simply be executed during the TSC#1 event and the output used directly in determining EDT. This is an alternative for a 
speed governor which does not contain an integrator, or if the integrator anti-windup logic is slow to respond. A guideline 
for “slow response” is that the governor output after 1 second of torque limiting has only moved 1/3 of the way to the limit, 
as shown for example in Figure SPN2432_E. 
Engine Speed
Full load governor
(torque curve)
Slope > 0.2%Torque /
RPM is considered
"steep droop"
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1157 -
FIGURE SPN2432_E – EXAMPLE OF “SLOW TO RESPOND” SPEED GOVERNOR 
Time
20
10
30
40
50
60
70
0.0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1.0
 Less than 1/3 of the
way an applied torque
limit in 1 second Speed Governor Output
Transmission Torque Command
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1158 -
SPN 2927 - Actual Inner wheel steering angle 
FIGURE SPN2927_A: STEERING AXLE ORIENTATION 
1. steering
axle
actual wheel
angle of 1.
steering axle
in this case
the angle is
negative
actual wheel
angle of 2.
steering axle;
in this case the
angle is
negative
Following sketch shows an example for the actual inward wheel
angles of the steering axles in the requested PGN :
Driving
Direction: turn
to left
2. steering
axle 3. steering
axle
Vehicle
actual wheel
angle of 3.
steering axle;
in this case the
angle is
positive
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1159 -
SPN 3697 – Diesel Particulate Filter Lamp Command 
SPN 3697 - Diesel 
Particulate Filter Lamp 
Command
SPN 3698 - Exhaust 
System High 
Temperature Lamp 
Command1
SPN 3703 - Diesel 
Particulate Filter Active 
Regeneration Inhibited 
Due to Inhibit Switch
SPN 3700 - Diesel 
Particulate Filter Active 
Regeneration Status
SPN 3701 - Diesel 
Particulate Filter Status
DM1 Message
1 Regeneration not needed 000 000 00 00 000 Per active DTCs
2 Regeneration needed – Request Level 001 000 00 10 001 Per active DTCs
3 Regeneration needed – Warning Level 100 000 00 10 010 Per active DTCs
4 Regeneration needed - Service Level 100 000 00 10 011 Per active DTCs. Amber 
Lamp shall be on with 
active DTC indicating 
regeneration level.
5 Regeneration needed – Stop Level 100 000 00 10 011 Per active DTCs. Red 
Lamp shall be on with 
active DTC indicating 
regeneration level.
6 Manual Regeneration Request 
Acknowledge
Per Filter Status - lamp 
will reflect actual level of 
DPF fill.
000 00 At transition. Change 
to 01 following switch 
input.
Per appropriate 
regeneration needed 
level
Per active DTCs
7 Regeneration active with exhaust 
temperature above a threshold
Per Filter Status - lamp 
will reflect actual level of 
DPF fill.
001 00 01 Per appropriate 
regeneration needed 
level
Per active DTCs
8 Regeneration active with exhaust 
temperature below a threshold
Per Filter Status - lamp 
will reflect actual level of 
DPF fill.
000 00 01 Per appropriate 
regeneration needed 
level
Per active DTCs
9 Regeneration Inhibit Acknowledge Per Filter Status - lamp 
will reflect actual level of 
DPF fill.
Per exhaust 
temperature.
At transition. From 00 
to 01 following switch 
input.
The following is for 
information only during 
this state: If SPN 3700 
is equal to 01, then it 
will change from 01 to 
the appropriate state 
following switch input. If 
it is not equal to 01, 
then value remains the 
same. 
Per appropriate 
regeneration needed 
level
Per active DTCs
SAE J1939 Parameters
State of Regeneration Cycle
The diesel particulate filter (DPF) thresholds used in the explanations below are relative to each other in the following manner: Request Level < Warning Level < Service Level < Stop Level
1. Regeneration not needed: Amount of particulate matter in DPF is below the request level threshold.
2. Regeneration needed - Request Level: Amount of particulate matter in DPF has exceeded request level threshold, but has not exceeded the warning level threshold.
3. Regeneration needed - Warning Level: Amount of particulate matter in DPF has exceeded warning level threshold, but has not exceeded the service level threshold. 
4. Regeneration needed - Service Level: Amount of particulate matter in DPF has exceeded service level threshold, but has not exceeded the stop level threshold. 
5. Regeneration needed - Stop Level: Amount of particulate matter in DPF has exceeded stop level threshold. 
6. Manual Regeneration Request Acknowledge: When the operator sets the SPN 3696 Diesel Particulate Filter Regeneration Force Switch to 01, then SPN 3700 will indicate that 
regeneration is active.
7. Regeneration active with exhaust temperature above a threshold: Needs no explanation.
8. Regeneration active with exhaust temperature below a threshold: Needs no explanation.
9. Regeneration Inhibit Acknowledge: If the operator has activated the Diesel Particulate Filter Regeneration Inhibit Switch (SPN 3695), then another device on the network can detect this 
event by monitoring SPN 3703 to change from 00 to 01.
The actual values of all thresholds referenced above are defined by the manufacturer.
Note 1
: In addition to the above table, the exhaust system high temperature lamp can be set due to high exhaust temperatures that are independent of a regeneration cycle.
FIGURE SPN3697_A – DIESEL PARTICULATE FILTER LAMP COMMAND
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1160 -
SPN 3785 – Tractor Brake Stroke System
The brake stroke system has essentially two inputs: 
1) Sensor at each actuator that allows the determination of 3 regions of stroke (Fully Returned, Normal Stroke 
Range, or Overstroke Range)
2) A sensor to detect the use of the brake pedal (similar to Stop Light Switch) 
The ECU then determines the brake stroke status as follows: 
Brake Pedal 
OFF ON
RETURNED OK Non-functional 
NORMAL Dragging OK Stroke
Sensor
OVERSTROKE Dragging Overstroke 
FIGURE SPN3785_A – Tractor Brake Stroke Definitions
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1161 -
SPN 4151 – Engine Exhaust Gas Temperature Average
Up to 3 different exhaust port temperature averages will be computed. These three averages include the left bank 
average exhaust port temperature, the right bank average exhaust port temperature and the engine average exhaust port 
temperature. The example below illustrates how these averages would be computed for a V8 engine configuration. Inline 
engines would utilize SPN 4151 for Engine Average Exhaust Temperature. 
FIGURE SPN4151_A – Engine Exhaust Gas Temperature Averaging Method 
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
.
.
.
20
1/8
1/4
1/4
Right Bank Average
Exhaust Port Temperature
(SPN 4152)
Left Bank Average
Exhaust Port Temperature
(SPN 4153)
Engine Average
Exhaust Port Temperature
(SPN 4151)
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1162 -
SPN 5052 – Clutch/Torque Converter Input Speed
FIGURE SPN5052_A – Power Divider Schematic 
CLUTCHES OR 
GEAR SETS
SPN 190 – ENGINE SPEED
SPN 5052 – CLUTCH / TORQUE CONVERTER INPUT SPEED
ENGINE SPN 161 – TRANSMISSION INPUT SHAFT SPEED
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1163 -
 SPN 5275 – PARK BRAKE ACTIVATION 
FIGURE SPN_5275A – PARK BRAKE ACTIVATION 
Park Brake is released 
when Application 
Pressure in this 
Release Chamber is 
above a high value. 
Park Brake is activated 
when Application Pressure 
in this Release Chamber is 
below a low value. 
Spring Brake Force is fully 
active at maximum level 
Spring Brake Force is
released
Park Position 
Released (= Driving) Position 
Combined Pressure Brake Cylinder with Spring Brake Device for Park Brake use 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1164 -
FIGURE SPN_5275B – PARK BRAKE ACTIVATION STATES 
Park Brake
Application
Pressure
0
10
Spring Brake Force 
[ % ] 
100
0
Signal, parking brake 
actuator" SPN 619, 
PGN 65274
Signal "EBC5, park 
brake fully activated" 
0
0
1
1
releasing
applying PB 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1165 -
PGN 1024 – External Brake Request 
FIGURE PGN1024_A - DATA FLOW DIAGRAM FOR EXTERNAL BRAKE REQUEST 
Foundation Brake 
Electronic Brake Controller 
XBR Request Message
- acceleration request 
- XBR Priority 
- XBR Control Mode 
- XBR EBI Switch 
- XBR Urgency 
XBR Selection Logic 
SAE J1939 Device(s) 
Operator Inputs 
- Brake Pedal 
- Accelerator Pedal 
- Retarder Switch 
- ... 
EBC5 "Response" Message 
- XBR Active Control Mode 
- XBR Acceleration Limit 
- XBR System State 
- XBR Foundation Brake 
Use
Retarder
Engine Brake
...
TSC1 Request Message 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1166 -
 FIGURE PGN1024_A - Data Flow Diagram for External Brake Request 
(Continued on next page)
no 
yes 
More than 1 message 
in queue? 
Use this message 
no 
yes 
Different Source Adress? Use the latest commanded message 
no 
yes 
Two XBR Priorities the 
same? 
Message with higher XBR Priority wins 
no 
yes 
Message of the same XBR 
Control Mode? 
The message which causes the lower total vehicle 
acceleration (= higher deceleration) 
wins 
no 
yes 
Different Acceleration 
Requests? 
Use newest message 
Use message 
with lowest acceleration = highest deceleration 
message 
queue 
________ 
... 
yes 
System State = 00 ? Allow any XBR demand 
no 
yes 
System State = 01 ? Allow only XBR demand with 
priority = 00 (highest) 
no 
Suppress this message 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1167 -
FIGURE PGN1024_B - XBR PRIORITY SELECTION LOGIC 
no
yes 
simultaneously: 
Driver brake demand? 
Use XBR demand 
no
yes 
XBR Control Mode 
=10 (maximum mode)? 
Driver demanded acceleration is added to 
XBR acceleration request 
yes 
yes 
no
XBR Priority = 00 
(highest)?
Allow XBR demand 
Allow acceleration of 
XBR Acceleration Limit
XBR acceleration 
demand
<
XBR Acceleration Limit 
(= higher decelaration 
then limit) 
Allow XBR demand 
no
no
XBR-demanded
acceleration lower (= 
higher deceleration)
than driver demanded 
acceleration?
yes 
Use driver demand 
Use XBR demand 
Execute
XBR Control Mode 
=01 (addition mode)? 
Use driver demand 
yes no 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1168 -
(R) PGN 2560 – CRUISE CONTROL/VEHICLE SPEED 
00 don't care don't care don't care don't care don't care don't care don't care Cruise control is disabled. 000 Off (000) Off (00) 0xFE 0xFE
01 Operator
selection
Operator
selection
Operator
selection
Operator
selection 00 don't care don't care Cruise Control Device shall execute the 
operator's request. 000 Based on operator 
selection
Based on operator 
selection 0xFE 0xFE
01 don't care don't care don't care don't care 01 don't care don't care Cruise control is not active.
Cruise control set speed is not retained. 001 Off (000) Off (00) SA of Device 0xFE
01 00 00 00 00 01 001 don't care don't care Cruise control is not active.
Cruise control set speed is not retained. 001 Off (000) Off (00) 0xFE 0xFE
01 don't care don't care don't care don't care 00 01 don't care Cruise control is not active.
Cruise control set speed is retained 010 Off (000) Off (00) 0xFE SA of Device
01 00 00 00 00 00 01 002 don't care Cruise control is not active.
Cruise control set speed is retained 010 Off (000) Off (00) 0xFE 0xFE
01 00 00 00 00 00 01 004 00 014 If a previous set speed exists, then cruise 
control will become active. 0113 Resume (100) On (01) 0xFE 0xFE
01 00 00 00 00 00 00 01 If a previous set speed exists, then cruise 
control will become active. 0113 Resume (100) On (01) 0xFE 0xFE
01 00 00 00 00 00 00 01 If a previous set speed does not exist, then 
cruise control will not become active. 100 Off (000) Off (00) 0xFE 0xFE
Inputs Outputs
1
 The values in the Output columns apply to the transition and after the transition until a valid command is received. If Cruise Control Disable Command has been used to disable cruise control, then a valid command is the 
Cruise Control Set Switch can be used to activate cruise control.
2 The values in the Output columns apply to the transition and after the transition until a valid command is received. If Cruise Control Pause Command has been used to disable cruise control, then a valid command to 
activate cruise control is (1) the Cruise Control Resume Switch, (2) the Cruise Control Set Switch, or (3) Cruise Control Resume Command.
3
 Cruise Control System Command State will change to the appropriate value when Cruise Control States is no longer equal to Resume (100).
4
 Information in this row indicates that Cruise Control Pause Command and Cruise Control Resume Command can transition in the same message and still achieve the desired cruise control resume functionality.
Note: The table above is intended to demonstrate that a request to disable cruise control shall have priority over another type of request. A request to disable cruise control includes one of the following: Cruise Control 
Enable Switch in the OFF position, a Cruise Control Disable Command received as 01, or a Cruise Control Pause Command received as 01.
FIGURE PGN 2560_A – RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN CRUISE CONTROL COMMAND PARAMETERS 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1169 -
PGN 39680 – Proprietary Messaging Information 
This PGN allows an ECU to report basic information about its data methods for the PropA, PropA2, and PropB messages 
for ECUs to determine proprietary messaging compatibility. Once proprietary messaging compatibility is determined 
through this PGN, then those ECUs could rely upon messages within that compatible proprietary space to negotiate more 
specific details of compatibility, such as the set of messages specifically supported and the data dictionary details. An 
accurate assessment of the proprietary messaging compatibility between ECUs in a network is vital to avoiding system 
operational hazards resulting from improper interpretation of proprietary messages. 
Using the J1939 Proprietary Messages (PropA, PropA2, and PropB) for communications between ECUs in a system 
requires ECUs to determine which, if any, of the other ECUs support and use the same data methods (i.e. data dictionary, 
ID assignments, data field structures, etc). Presently, the only SAE J1939 standardized data available to ECUs for 
determining such proprietary messaging compatibility is the Manufacturer Code parameter in the J1939 NAME reported in 
the address claim message. This information is marginally sufficient for ECUs to limit proprietary messaging use with 
peer ECUs of the same Manufacturer Code. However, this information is not sufficient when proprietary messaging is 
needed between ECUs with different Manufacturer Codes. 
Using proprietary messages to communicate between ECUs from different manufacturers requires design time 
negotiations between manufacturers to establish the data dictionary, message IDs, etc. Often only a small range of 
message IDs are sectioned off for these interactions and the rest of the proprietary space in each ECU is the native 
proprietary language of that manufacturer. When using the PropA and PropA2 messages, an ECU can restrict to only 
those sent specifically to its address and validate the Manufacturer Code and other NAME elements of the Source 
Address before applying the negotiated methods. However, it is possible that the negotiated language for the sectioned 
off IDs is applicable by each manufacturer for those specific components, and such space may have different language 
rules for other components or similar components on other systems. When using the PropB messages, an ECU can only 
cross reference the Manufacturer Code and other NAME elements of the Source Address. However, it is not possible to 
determine how the message source has encoded the message or if the source even intended for the ECU to use the 
message. Consequently, the J1939 NAME is not really sufficient for determining any compatibility for the PropA, PropA2, 
and PropB messages. 
Notes
The data field consists of zero or more Proprietary Method data structures. Each Proprietary Method data structure 
consists of a Manufacturer Code parameter and a Method ID parameter. The J1939 Manufacturer Code values (J1939 
Table B10) shall serve as the enumeration standard for the Manufacturer Code. The Method ID parameter is a 21-bit 
value defined and set by the manufacturer.
Each Proprietary Method structure allow an ECU to essentially say "This ECU supports Manufacturer X's Proprietary 
Method '123' ". Since the message supports the ability to report multiple Proprietary Methods, this structure allows an 
ECU to essentially say: 
"This ECU supports 
Manufacturer X's proprietary method '123' 
Manufacturer X's proprietary method '456' 
Manufacturer Y's proprietary method '321' " 
In the above example, Manufacturer X method 123 (X-123) might be for PropA messaging and may have a set of the 
rules for discovering further PropA proprietary details. Those ECUs with X-123 knowledge will be able to perform the 
discovery and possibly initiate messaging conversations using the X-123 methods. The Manufacturer X method 456 (X456) might be for PropA2 messaging and may have a set of the rules for discovering further PropA2 proprietary details.
Similarly, those ECUs with X-456 knowledge will be able to perform the discovery and possibly initiate messaging 
conversations using the X-456 methods. Finally, an ECU could limit acceptance and interpretation of proprietary 
messages only to those ECUs that indicate specific Proprietary Methods. When establishing proprietary messaging 
between ECUs with different manufacturer codes, the parties can establish the Proprietary Method ID which indicates the 
use of the that specific negotiated messaging.
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1170 -
A destination specific message is requested to allow an ECU to customize its message response for the requesting 
device.
This is a standardized mechanism for an ECU to report a listing of the manufacturer specific (i.e. proprietary) methods it 
supports when using the PropA, PropA2, and PropB PGNs. The ability to support multiple manufacturer proprietary 
methods allows manufacturers to collaborate on application specific communication needs that are not of interest to the 
SAE J1939 committee. The process of selecting a specific method for ECUs that list multiple mutually exclusive methods 
is intended to be defined by the manufacturer and therefore not within the scope of this PGN. 
NOTE—The placement of the Manufacturer Code and Method ID bits into the 4-byte space is illustrated in Figure 
PGN39680_A.
Figure PGN39680_A - Placement of Manufacturer Code and Method ID Data 
EXAMPLE 1—The following illustrates the message format for when there are more than one proprietary method to 
report.
Given:
a = Manufacturer Code 
b = Method ID 
Message form is as follows: a,b,a,b,a,b,a,b, ....etc. In this example, the transport protocol of SAE J1939-21 has 
to be used to send the information because it requires more than 8 data bytes. Actually any time there is more 
than two methods to report, the services of the transport protocol have to be used.
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1171 -
PGN 52992 – Continuous Torque & Speed Limit Request 
The TSC1 message allows J1939 network devices to temporarily control engine and retarder speed and torque. This 
approach allows engine (and retarder) speed to be controlled by one device for a limited period of time. This may need to 
happen for brief emergency conditions (as requested by an anti-lock braking system for example) or in order to 
synchronize engine speed with some other device such as a transmission in order to allow a shift. Conflicting speed and 
torque requests from different devices are resolved by a predefined arbitration scheme. 
Not every torque or speed need is satisfactorily addressed by this plan, however. Occasionally a network device may 
wish to impose longer lasting limits on speed and torque. For instance, as long as a transmission is in third gear, it may 
not be able to withstand all the torque the engine (or retarder) can produce. Or, an auxiliary device such as a pump may 
only operate correctly if engine speed and torque are kept within some fairly limited range but not necessarily at one 
precise speed/torque! In these cases, the network device does not need to command the precise speed or torque, but 
does have a legitimate desire to keep it within some boundary for an extended period of time. The TSC1 message 
doesn’t provide this ability. 
How: The ECM and retarder controller(s) first must define a “window” within the torque map. The window should be 
chosen carefully, and shouldn’t be any larger than necessary. Any requests for continuous limits that attempt to intrude on 
this window will succeed only in setting limits at the very threshold of the window. For example, if the ECM declares that 
minimum continuous torque limits must be less than 900 lb-ft, and some device attempts to set a minimum continuous 
torque of 1000 lb-ft, the actual applied continuous limit will be 900 lb-ft (thus 900 lb-ft is the minimum continuous torque). 
When this limit is applied, the engine will always produce at least 900 lb-ft of torque. Similarly, if the engine declares that
minimum continuous engine speed cannot be more than 1100 RPM, any attempts at setting a minimum continuous 
engine speed of over 1100 RPM will result in a minimum continuous engine speed of 1100 RPM. That is, the engine has 
declared beforehand that it will always be able to operate at least at 1100 RPM.
Periodically, the ECM and retarder controller(s) will transmit the dimensions of this window, as well as what actual 
continuous limits have been applied. This allows the engine to adjust the size and shape of the “window” to allow for 
derates and provides feedback to the various devices requesting continuous torque and/or speed limits. 
The following figure shows an example torque curve with a “window” inside.
FIGURE PGN52992_A 
RPM
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1172 -
The following figure shows how the ECM will treat requests that are outside of the bounds set by the “window.” Note that 
the ECM has declared a “maximum allowable minimum” and a “minimum allowable maximum” for both speed and torque. 
 These limits form a sort of rectangular “window” within the torque. The engine must be free to operate within this 
window; no continuous limits will be accepted that would intrude on it. In the diagram, some network device has ignored 
those values and attempted to set a minimum continuous speed higher than allowed. Remember, a minimum continuous 
speed means that the engine must always maintain an RPM of that value or greater. The ECM cannot accept the 
requested limit, so it applies a continuous limit as close as possible: right at the boundary set by “maximum value allowed 
for minimum continuous speed.” Requests for Minimum Continuous Speed and Max/Min continuous torque are handled 
the same way. 
FIGURE PGN52992_B
Things get a little more complicated when a retarder is included. Fortunately, only the engine compression brake retarder 
has any real relationship to the engine’s torque map. Because other retarders may work against the engine, only the 
compression brake is generally controlled by the same ECU. For this reason, we must give it more careful attention. 
The following figure illustrates one of the problems. Suppose continuous limits have been applied to the engine and 
retarder as indicated by the rectangular boxes within the torque maps. If the engine is prohibited from allowing torque to 
decrease below x, how can the retarder be engaged? An engine compression brake retarder needs zero fueling for the 
engine in order to engage. The simple answer is that if there is a minimum continuous torque limit applied to the engine, 
the retarder will not be engaged. 
How does the reverse case behave? If the retarder is of a type other than engine compression brake, it may work against 
the engine and continuously produce a negative torque. Engine compression brake retarders must not send out a list of 
acceptable limits that would allow such conundrums. In practical terms, this means that engine compression brake 
retarders must set their Maximum Continuous Torque limit (think of it as MINIMUM continuous BRAKING torque limit) to 
zero in order for the retarder to ever be engaged. Similarly, the continuous limits as actually applied to the engine must 
allow zero torque if the retarder is to be engaged. 
RPM
Highest value for minimum 
continuous RPM as allowed by ECM
Minimum Continuous RPM as 
requested by a network device.
Minimum Continuous 
Speed limit that will 
actually be applied.
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1173 -
FIGURE PGN52992_C
RPM
Engine 
Torque Map
Retarder Torque 
Map
x
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1174 -
PGN 56320 – Anti-Theft Status
FIGURE PGN56320_A - OPERATOR DESIRES TO ADD A PASSWORD TO THE 
COMPONENT'S PASSWORD STRUCTURE 
101* *00*
PGN 56576: This is a request for an encryption seed
Bytes 2-8: Blank zeros
Byte 1:
* * * * * *01
PGN 56320: The component provides the encryption seed
Bytes 2-8: Encryption seed
Byte 1:
* * * *01* *
PGN 56320: Gives appropriate feedback as to the validity of the login
validation password (proceeds only if login validation password check is
passed - - i.e. if the interface device returns a 0 1 and NOT a 0 0)
Bytes 2-8: Blank zeros
Byte 1:
000* *01*
PGN 56576: This is a request to add the password that was
entered by the operator, and represented here in bytes 2-8
Bytes 2-8: Encrypted password
Byte 1:
00* *01* *
PGN 56320: Provides feedback if the password entered by the operator is a
valid password and if the "add" command was successfully executed
Bytes 2-8: Blank zeros
Byte 1:
101* *01*
PGN 56576: The password entered by the end user is
encrypted and sent back to the component
Bytes 2-8: Encrypted login validation password
Byte 1:
Interfacing Device Component
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1175 -
FIGURE PGN56320_B—OPERATOR DESIRES TO DELETE A PASSWORD FROM THE 
COMPONENT’S PASSWORD STRUCTURE
Interfacing Device Component
011* *00*
PGN 56576: This is a request for an encryption seed
Bytes 2-8: Blank zeros
Byte 1:
* * * * * *01
PGN 56320: Component provides the encryption seed
Bytes 2-8: Encryption seed
Byte 1:
001* *01*
PGN 56576: This is the password that the user indicates is to be
deleted from the component's password structure
Bytes 2-8: Encrypted password that is to be deleted
Byte 1:
Bytes 2-8: Blank zeros
00* *01* *
PGN 56320: Component provides feedback if the password entered by
the operator is a valid password and if (if the password is valid) if the
"delete" command was successfully executed
Byte 1:
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1176 -
FIGURE PGN56320_C—OPERATOR DESIRES TO CHANGE A PASSWORD WITHIN THE 
COMPONENT’S PASSWORD STRUCTURE 
101* *00*
PGN 56576: This is a request for an encryption seed
Bytes 2-8: Blank zeros
Byte 1:
* * * *01* *
PGN 56320: Gives appropriate feedback as to the validity of the login
validation password (proceeds only if login validation password check is
passed - - i.e. if the interface device returns a 0 1 and NOT a 0 0)
Bytes 2-8: Blank zeros
Byte 1:
010* *01*
PGN 56576: This is a request to change the password under which
the operator logged on, to the password provided by the operator,
represented here in bytes 2-8
Bytes 2-8: Encrypted password
Byte 1:
00* *01* *
PGN 56320: Provides feedback if the password entered by the operator is a
valid password and if the "change" command was successfully executed
Bytes 2-8: Blank zeros
Byte 1:
101* *01*
PGN 56576: The password entered by the end user is
encrypted and sent back to the component
Bytes 2-8: Encrypted login validation password
Byte 1:
Interfacing Device Component
* * * * * *01
PGN 56320: The component provides the encryption seed
Bytes 2-8: Encryption seed
Byte 1:
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1177 -
FIGURE PGN56320_D—OPERATOR DESIRES TO LOCK OR UNLOCK THE COMPONENT
Interfacing Device Component
011* *00*
PGN 56576: This is a request for an encryption seed
Bytes 2-8: Blank zeros
Byte 1:
* * * * * *01
PGN 56320: Component provides the encryption seed
Bytes 2-8: Encryption seed
Byte 1:
011* *01*
PGN 56576: Sends the operator's password (that was entered
with the intention to either Lock or Unlock the component)
Bytes 2-8: Encrypted password
Byte 1:
Bytes 2-8: Blank zeros
00* *01* *
PGN 56320: Component provides feedback if the password entered by
the operator is a valid password and if the Lock or Unlock command
was successfully executed
Byte 1:
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1178 -
FIGURE PGN56320_E—CHECKING STATUS OF THE COMPONENT
Interfacing Device Component
100* *11*
PGN 56576: This is a request to check the Locked/
Unlocked status of the component
Bytes 2-8: Blank zeros
Byte 1:
* *01* * * *
PGN 56320: Gives feedback information if the engine is
Locked or Unlocked
Bytes 2-8: Blank zeros
Byte 1:
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1179 -
FIGURE PGN56320_F—ABNORMAL COMPONENT POWER INTERRUPTION 
(INTERFACING DEVICE POWER IS NOT INTERRUPTED) 
00* *01* *
PGN 56320: Component provides feedback if the password entered by
the operator is a valid password and if the Lock or Unlock command
was successfully executed
Bytes 2-8: Blank zeros
Byte 1:
Interfacing Device Component
11* *0000
PGN 56320: The component provides an Anti-Theft Status
Report (request Not_valid, appropriate lock status, password
valid=false, seed present=false)
Bytes 2-8: Blank zeros
Byte 1:
Component
Power
Interrupt
Occurs
011* *00*
PGN 56576: Interfacing device requests encryption seed
Bytes 2-8: Blank zeros
Byte 1:
* **** *01
PGN 56320: Component provides the encryption seed
Bytes 2-8: Encryption seed
Byte 1:
000* *01*
PGN 56576: Interfacing Device sends the operator's password (that
was entered with the intention to either Lock or Unlock the component)
Bytes 2-8: Encrypted password
Byte 1:
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1180 -
(R) PGN 61459 – Slope Sensor Information
FIGURE PGN61459_A—SLOPE SENSOR ORIENTATIONS 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1181 -
 PGN 61466 – Engine Throttle / Fuel Actuator Control Command
FIGURE PGN61466_A – AIR HANDLING SYSTEMS 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1182 -
(R) PGN 64730 – Diesel Particulate Filter Soot Sensor measurement 
The DPF Soot Loading Sensor (aka Soot Sensor) consists of a pair of antennae mounted across the DPF filter. The 
sensor operates by applying a signal on one antenna and measures the attenuation of the signal on the other antenna. 
The sensor can vary the frequency characteristics of the applied signal, thereby providing the ability to do frequency 
spectrum analysis of the DPF filter. The requested command and data messages provide the ability for another ECU 
within the system to request the attenuation measurements for 4 specific frequencies at any point in time. 
FIGURE PGN64730_B – SOOT LOADING SENSOR MEASUREMENT LOCATIONS 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1183 -
(R) PGN 64739 - Engine Exhaust Brake Control 
FIGURE 64739_A – ENGINE EXHAUST BRAKE CONTROL SIGNALS 
(R) PGN 64966 – Cold Start Aids 
FIGURE 64966_A – COLD START AID SIGNALS 
SPN 5548 - Engine Cold Start Fuel Igniter 
SPN 5549 - Engine Cold Start Fuel Igniter Relay 
SPN 5550 - Engine Cold Start Fuel Igniter Relay Feedback 
Cold Start
Fuel Igniter
Cold Start
Fuel Igniter Relay
Engine Control 
Battery +
Cold Start
Fuel Solenoid
Highest Pressure Turbine
Lowest Pressure Turbine
SPN 3609 - Diesel
Particulate Filter Intake 
Pressure 1
Diesel Particulate Filter SPN 5543 - Engine 
Exhaust Brake Actuator 
Command
SPN 5544 - Engine 
Turbocharger 2 Outlet 
Pressure
SPN 1209 - Engine 
Exhaust Gas Pressure
From Exhaust Manifold
To Exhaust
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1184 -
PGN 64839 – Transmission Mode Labels
Conveys ASCII ‘labels’ for each of the manufacturer-specified TC1 Transmission Mode ’x’ / ETC7 Transmission Mode 
Indicator ‘x’ pairs. Intended for use with on-board or service tool displays. There are up to 8 fields (for Transmission 
Mode 1 through Transmission Mode 8), and each is separated by an ASCII asterisk delimiter “*”. It is not necessary to 
include all fields; however, the delimiter is always required. 
Data byte arrangement a1…ax * a1…bx * c1…cx * d1…dx * e1…ex * f1…fx * g1…gx * h1…hx
…where, if applicable: 
a1 ax Transmission Mode Label, for Transmission Mode 1 
ASCII * Delimiter 
b1 bx Transmission Mode Label, for Transmission Mode 2 
ASCII * Delimiter 
c1 cx Transmission Mode Label, for Transmission Mode 3 
ASCII * Delimiter 
d1 dx Transmission Mode Label, for Transmission Mode 4 
ASCII * Delimiter 
e1 ex Transmission Mode Label, for Transmission Mode 5 
ASCII * Delimiter 
f1 fx Transmission Mode Label, for Transmission Mode 6 
ASCII * Delimiter 
g1 gx Transmission Mode Label, for Transmission Mode 7 
ASCII * Delimiter 
h1 hx Transmission Mode Label, for Transmission Mode 8 
EXAMPLE – Delimiter use when label support varies: 
aaaaaaaa*bbbbbbbbbbb******
*bbbbbbbb******
*bbbbbbbb**dddd****
EXAMPLE – A transmission supporting a ‘NORMAL’ operating mode in Transmission Mode 1, and a ‘PLOW’ mode in 
Transmission Mode 2 might send: 
Data Byte: 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17
Decimal 78 79 82 77 65 76 42 80 76 79 87 42 42 42 42 42 42 
ASCII: ‘N’ ‘O’ ‘R’ ‘M’ ‘A’ ‘L’ ‘*’ ‘P’ ‘L’ ‘O’ ‘W’ ‘*’ ‘*’ ‘*’ ‘*’ ‘*’ ‘*’ 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1185 -
 PGN 64906 – SAE J2012 DTC Display
Conveys basic SAE J2012 DTC information for on-board or service tool displays. 
Data byte arrangement: A B11 B21 B31 B41 B51 C1 B1X B2X B3X B4X B5X CX . . . 
…where:
Data Byte Definition
A Number of J2012 DTCs 
B1X 1st Character of J2012 DTC x 
B2X 2nd Character of J2012 DTC x 
B3X 3rd Character of J2012 DTC x 
B4X 4th Character of J2012 DTC x 
B5X 5th Character of J2012 DTC x 
C X Bit 8: J2012 DTC Status 
Bits 7-1: J2012 DTC Occurrence Count 
If PGN 64906 is requested and a supporting device has no active or inactive J2012 DTCs, PGN 64906 shall be sent as a 
single frame message with the first data byte (Number of J2012 DTCs) set to zero. When two or more J2012 DTCs are 
indicated, PGN 64906 must be sent via Transport Protocol (See J1939-21). 
EXAMPLE – A device conveying (1) an active P1482 with 9 counts and (2) an inactive U0100 with 4 counts would 
populate the data bytes as follows: 
Data Byte: 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13
Decimal 2 80 49 52 56 50 137 85 48 49 48 48 4 
ASCII: -- ‘P’ ‘1’ ‘4’ ‘8’ ‘2’ -- ‘U’ ‘0’ ‘1’ ‘0’ ‘0’ -- 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1186 -
 PGN 64912 – Advertised Engine Torque Curve
This map conveys the advertised torque curve for the engine, as typically seen on specification sheets available from 
most engine manufacturers. The collection conditions for the data conveyed are indicated by SPN 3558 – AETC Data 
Collection Standard.
This map does not contain dynamic elements, and does not change during engine operation. For engines capable of 
dynamically switching between torque curves or ratings during operation, this map contains values for the highest (most 
powerful) rating. This map is not intended for use in real time engine control, but merely to indicate what engine rating is 
installed in the vehicle. 
Data points on the curve are in order from left to right, and, at a minimum, must span from the lowest rpm where peak 
torque can be produced to the high speed governor breakpoint. SPN 3559 – Number of AETC Data Points indicates the 
number of data points being sent. A minimum of 5 points must be supported, with up to 15 available as needed to 
properly convey the shape of the torque curve. As illustrated below, speed values need not be evenly incremented. 
1500
1400
1300
1200
1100
1
2
7
3 4 5
6
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1187 -
 PGN 64932 – PTO Drive Engagement 
 FIGURE PGN64932_A – PTO DRIVE ENGAGEMENT LOCATIONS 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1188 -
PDE Engagement Consent -
Transmission input shaft PTO 1
Driver's switch to turn on
transmission geartrainmounted PTO device
Body
Controller
Engine
ABS
Trans
On
Off
Pressure switch which
indicates if PTO device
actually engaged
Output to relay which
engages the transmission
geartrain-mounted PTO
device
Engine Speed &
Transmission
Output Shaft
Speed sensors
EEC1 Engine Speed
EEC2 Accelerator (AP) Position
PDE Enable Switch - Transmission
input shaft PTO 1
AND
Engagement Status - Transmission
input shaft PTO 1
1
2
3
4
5
6
3
6
1
PTO
Engaged! 6
FIGURE PGN64932_B – VEHICLE OEM CONTROLLER INTERFACES WITH ALL PTO WIRING 
More ideal from an OEM standpoint, as they no longer need any specialized PTO wiring for different makes of 
transmissions.
1. The transmission continually monitors the conditions it requires before its PTO drive can be engaged. This may 
include internal sensors as well as data collected from the network, such as accelerator pedal position. 
2. Regardless of whether the operator has requested PTO engagement, the ‘engagement consent’ status is continually 
broadcast by the transmission. 
3. The operator turns on the cab switch to activate the PTO device mounted on the transmission. The Body Controller 
reflects this switch status in its PDE message broadcast; the transmission or other devices on the network may 
choose to use this information in their control logic. 
4. Among its conditions and inputs required before engaged the PTO drive, the Body Controller checks the ‘consent’ 
status broadcast from the transmission. 
5. If conditions are acceptable, the Body Controller power the circuit to engage the PTO mounted on the transmission. 
6. The Body Controller monitors the progress of the physical PTO engagement, and reflects this in its PDE broadcast so 
that other on the network may use the information. 
7. The Body Controller continues to monitor the transmissions ‘consent’ broadcast, and disengages the PTO if at any 
time the transmission rescinds its consent. 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1189 -
PDE Enable Switch - Transmission
input shaft PTO 1
AND
Engagement Status - Transmission
input shaft PTO 1
AND
Engagement Consent - Transmission
input shaft PTO 1
Driver's switch to turn on
transmission geartrainmounted PTO device
Body
Controller
Engine
ABS
Trans
On
Off
Pressure switch which indicates
if PTO device actually engaged
Output to relay which engages
the transmission geartrainmounted PTO device
Engine Speed and Transmission
Output Shaft Speed sensors
EEC1 Engine Speed
EEC2 Accelerator (AP) Position
1
2
3
4
5
5
3
1
PTO
Engaged! 5
FIGURE PGN64932_C – COMPONENT DRIVING PTO INTERFACES WITH ALL PTO WIRING 
This arrangement might be better suited for small OEMs who would rather not deal with figuring out the PTO wiring. 
The key point is that the proposed PTO Engagement message structure would adapt to either configuration. Note that 
the Body Controller broadcasts no new messages; only the transmission sends the PDE message. 
1. The transmission continually monitors the conditions it requires before its PTO drive can be engaged. This may 
include internal sensors as well as data collected from the network, such as accelerator pedal position. 
2. Regardless of whether the operator has requested PTO engagement, the ‘engagement consent’ status is continually 
broadcast by the transmission. 
3. The operator turns on the cab switch to activate the PTO device mounted on the transmission. The Transmission 
Controller reflects this switch status in its PDE message broadcast; the Body Controller or other devices on the 
network may choose to use this information in their control logic. 
4. If conditions are acceptable, the Transmission Controller power the circuit to engage the PTO mounted on the 
transmission.
5. The Transmission Controller monitors the progress of the physical PTO engagement, and reflects this in its PDE 
broadcast so that other on the network may use the information. 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1190 -
Engine
ABS
Trans
Pressure switch which
indicates if PTO device
actually engaged
Output to relay which
engages the
transmission geartrainmounted PTO device
Engine Speed and
Transmission Output
Shaft Speed sensors
EEC1 Engine Speed
EEC2 Accelerator (AP) Position
1 2
4
5
3
Driver's switch to turn
on transmissionmounted PTO device
3
1
On
Off
Body
Controller
PDE Engagement Consent -
Transmission input shaft PTO 1
PDE Enable Switch - Transmission
input shaft PTO 1
AND
Engagement Status - Transmission
5 input shaft PTO 1
PTO
Engaged! 5
FIGURE PGN64932_D – DISTRIBUTED PTO INTERFACES WIRING 
This arrangement is shown to illustrate the flexibility of the PDE messaging. 
The various inputs are distributed among two or three controllers that are part of the PTO engagement system.
1. The transmission continually monitors the conditions it requires before its PTO drive can be engaged. This may 
include internal sensors as well as data collected from the network, such as throttle position. 
2. Regardless of whether the operator has requested PTO engagement, the ‘engagement consent’ status is continually 
broadcast by the transmission. 
3. The operator turns on the cab switch to activate the PTO device mounted on the transmission. The Body Controller 
reflects this switch status in its PDE message broadcast; the Transmission Controller receives this input. 
4. If conditions are acceptable, the Transmission Controller power the circuit to engage the PTO mounted on the 
transmission.
5. The Body Controller monitors the progress of the physical PTO engagement, and reflects this in its PDE broadcast so 
that other on the network may use the information. 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1191 -
PGN 64938 – Engine Fluid, Level and Pressure 4 
FIGURE PGN64938_A – ENGINE CHARGE AIR COOLER PRESSURES 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1192 -
(R) PGN 64948 – Aftertreatment Systems 
The diagram illustrates an aftertreatment configuration that consists of a Warm Up Diesel Oxidation Catalyst, a Diesel 
Oxidation Catalyst, and a Diesel Particulate Filter. An optional component is displayed within the dashed lines. 
FIGURE PGN64948_A - CONFIGURATION SHOWING WARM UP DIESEL OXIDATION CATALYST, 
DIESEL OXIDATION CATALYST, AND DIESEL PARTICULATE FILTER 
Numerical
Identifer in 
FIGURE
PGN64948_
A
Parameter Name 
Example:
J1939 SPN 
1 Aftertreatment Diesel Oxidation Catalyst 5018 
2 Aftertreatment Diesel Oxidation Catalyst Differential Pressure 4767 
3 Aftertreatment Diesel Oxidation Catalyst Intake Temperature 4765 
4 Aftertreatment Diesel Oxidation Catalyst Outlet Temperature 4766 
5 Aftertreatment Diesel Particulate Filter 3936 
6 Aftertreatment Diesel Particulate Filter Differential Pressure 3251 
7 Aftertreatment Diesel Particulate Filter Intake Pressure 3609 
8 Aftertreatment Diesel Particulate Filter Intake Temperature 3242 
9 Aftertreatment Diesel Particulate Filter Intermediate Gas Temperature 3250 
10 Aftertreatment Diesel Particulate Filter Outlet Pressure 3610 
11 Aftertreatment Diesel Particulate Filter Outlet Temperature 3246 
12 Aftertreatment Exhaust Gas Temperature 3241 
13 Aftertreatment Fuel Drain Actuator 4097 
14 Aftertreatment Fuel Pressure 3480 
15 Aftertreatment Fuel Shutoff Valve 3482 
16 Aftertreatment Hydrocarbon Doser 3556 
17 Aftertreatment Warm Up Diesel Oxidation Catalyst 4791 
18 Aftertreatment Warm Up Diesel Oxidation Catalyst Intake Temperature 4809 
19 Aftertreatment Warm Up Diesel Oxidation Catalyst Outlet Temperature 4810 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1193 -
PGN 65104 – Battery Information 
FIGURE PGN65104_A – BATTERY INFORMATION 
SPN SPN Name SPN SPN Name
114 Net Battery Current 2579 Net Battery Current (High Range/Resolution)
115 Alternator Current 2634 Power Relay
158 Keyswitch Battery Potential 3507 TECU ECU PWR Relay
167 Charging System Potential (Voltage) 3508 TECU PWR Relay
168 Battery Potential / Power Input 1 3509 Sensor Supply 1
430 Engine Starter Solenoid Voltage 3510 Sensor Supply 2
444 Battery Potential / Power Input 2 3511 Sensor Supply 3
677 Engine Starter Motor Relay 3512 Sensor Supply 4
1204 Electrical Load 3513 Sensor Supply 5
1321 Engine Starter Solenoid Lockout Relay Driver Circuit 3514 Sensor Supply 6
1795 Alternator Current (High Range/Resolution) 3597 ECU Power Output 1
1800 Battery 1 Temperature 3598 ECU Power Output 2
1801 Battery 2 Temperature
FIGURE PGN65104_B – BATTERY INFORMATION LEGEND 
+ -
Battery #1 
ECM #2 
+ - ECM #8
Battery #4 
ECM #9
SPN: 3509 – 3514
Engine 
Starter Motor 
SPN: 114 
SPN: 168 
SPN: 1204 
SPN: 2579 
SPN: 444 
SPN: 168 
SPN: 3597
SPN: 3598 SPN: 168 
SPN: 168 
SPN: 168
SPN: 168 
SPN: 3597
SPN: 3599 
+ -
Battery #2 
+ -
Battery #3 SPN: 168
SPN: 3597 & 3598 
SPN: 444 
SPN: 3507 
SPN: 2634
SPN: 168 
+ -
Battery #5 
SPN: 677 
SPN: 158 
SPN: 3508
ECM #7
Auxiliary Motors, etc 
SPN: 1321 
ECM #1 
ECM
#6
SPN: 3509 – 3511 
Alt 
SPN: 1801 
SPN: 1800 
Alternator 
ECM
#5
ECM #4 
ECM
#3
+
Note: The ECMs shown in this diagram could represent an ECM, or any intelligent device that is capable of diagnostics. 
SPN: 167 
SPN: 430 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1194 -
PGN 65135 – Adaptive Cruise Control 
FIGURE PGN65135_A – ADAPTIVE CRUISE CONTROL TIMING DIAGRAM 
Engine cruise
control
ACC
Event
Off
Non-cruise mode
Off
Non-cruise mode
On
Hold set speed
Engine cruise
control
ACC
Event
Off
Non-cruise mode
Off
Non-cruise mode
On
Hold set speed
Off
Non-cruise mode
Off
Non-cruise mode
On
Hold set speed
Engine cruise
control
ACC
Event
Off
Off
Off
Off
Off
Non-cruise mode
Off
Non-cruise mode
Off
Non-cruise mode
Engine cruise
control
ACC
Event
On
Hold set speed
Off
Non-cruise mode
Off
Hold set speed
Off
Hold set speed
On
Hold set speed
ACC1
TSC1 from ACC
LEGEND
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1195 -
 PGN 65163 – Gaseous Fuel Pressure
 FIGURE PGN65163_A – GAS SUPPLY AND CONTROL SYSTEMS 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1196 -
PGN 65249 – Retarder Information 
FIGURE PGN65249_A TYPICAL HYDRAULIC RETARDER TORQUE CURVE 
FIGURE PGN65249_B TYPICAL ENGINE COMPRESSION BRAKE TORQUE CURVE Retarder Torque
Engine Speed 
1
3
Reference Torque 
5
4
2
Retarder 
Torque
Engine Speed 
Reference Torque 
1
3
4
2
5
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1197 -
PGN 65251 – Engine Configuration 1
TABLE PGN65251_A ENGINE CONFIGURATION CHARACTERISTIC MODES 
 Torque/Speed 
Mode Point 2 Governor Gain 
KP
High Idle Speed
1 Available Not available Available 
2 Not Available Available Available 
3 Available Available Not available 
The following points are shown in Figures PGN65251_A, PGN65251_B, and PGN65251_C. 
Point 1 (required): Torque/speed point at idle 
Point 2 (required): Mode 1 & 3: Torque/speed point at which the high speed governor becomes active 
Mode 2: Normal torque/speed point 
Point 3,4,5 (required): Torque/speed points between points 1 and 2 to permit linear interpolation over the entire torque 
range. It is required that one of these points indicate the peak torque point for the current engine 
torque map. 
Point 6 (mode dependent): Mode 1 & 2: High idle speed (torque = 0) 
Mode 3: Not available (point is defined by the endspeed governor where torque = 0) 
Point 7 (optional): Maximum momentary engine override speed (torque = 0) 
Reference engine torque: Engine torque in Nm. 
This parameter is the reference value of 100% for all defined indicated engine torque parameters. 
It is only defined once and doesn't change if a different engine torque map becomes valid. 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1198 -
5'
3
3' 4'
"Standard"
engine torque
map
"Reduced"
engine torque
map
Idle High idle Momentary Speed overspeed
Torque 
1
1'
4
5
2
2'
6'
6 7
Reference
Torque
FIGURE PGN65251_A ENGINE CONFIGURATION MAP-MODE 1 
Speed
High idle
engine torque
map
Endspeed
governor
 torque
 speed
5
2
6
Gain KP
FIGURE PGN65251_B ENGINE CONFIGURATION MAP-MODE 2 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1199 -
FIGURE PGN65251_C ENGINE CONFIGURATION MAP-MODE 3
Speed
engine torque
map
Endspeed
governor
 torque
 speed
5
Gain KP = torque
 speed
2
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1200 -
 PGN 65254 – Time/Date Broadcast 
Decision Tree for Reporting Time and Date and Local Hour Offset
Done
Start
Yes, UTC Time and Date
Time and Date (SPNs 
959-964) reported as 
UTC Time and Date?
Does the 
application 
support Local 
Offset?
Report Time and Date (SPNs 
959-964) using UTC Time 
and Date values
Report $F9 for Local Hour 
Offset (SPN 1602)
No, Local Time
and Date
Report $FA for Local Hour 
Offset (SPN 1602)
Report value between $66 
and $94, inclusively, for Local 
Hour Offset (SPN 1602)
Is Local Offset 
value known at 
this time?
No
Yes
Yes
No
Report $FF for Local Minute 
Offset (SPN 1601)
Report $FF for Local Minute 
Offset (SPN 1601)
Report appropriate value for 
Local Minute Offset (SPN 
1601)
The flow chart shows the correct values to report for the Time and Date (SPNs 959-964) and 
Local Hour Offset (SPN 1602), depending upon the Time Standard (UTC or Local Time) used for 
SPNs 959-964 data and support of Local Offset.
Report Time and Date (SPNs 
959-964) using Local Time 
and Date values
FIGURE 65254_A: FLOW CHART FOR REPORTING TIME AND DATE AND LOCAL HOUR OFFSET 
SAE J1939-71 - Revised MAR2011 - 1201 -
FIGURE 65254_B: FLOW CHART FOR INTERPRETING TIME AND DATE AND LOCAL HOUR OFFSET 
